## v0.3.0

### Weapon Refactor
See the post on the homepage for a more detailed explanation. In short, the weapons have been overhauled, reducing the overall damage spread.

New weapon type: Semi-automatic
When you make a ranged attack with this weapon, you can use your bonus action to make a second ranged attack. You do not add your Dexterity
modifier to the attack or damage roll. The second attack may be on the same or a different target.

Added melee weapons.

### Feats
* New Feat: Hair Trigger, gives you an advantage when using semi-automatic weapons.

### Classes

#### Class Features
* Removed the "Up close and personal" fighting style.
* Added the "Carnage" fighting style, which specifically buffs shotgun use.

#### Engineer
* Renamed "Kamakaze drone" to "Disruptor drone", more in line with [the game](http://masseffect.wikia.com/wiki/Disruption_Drone).
* Renamed "Support" sublcass to "Medic", more in line with [the game](http://masseffect.wikia.com/wiki/Engineer#Class_Talent)
* Added some additional subclass features to the Demolisher. It was lacking in combat potential until later levels.

#### Vanguard
__Cabal__
Cabal reworked and renamed to Nemesis.
* Nightshade blades is now a combat power available to Vanguards, Infiltrators, and Soldiers
* Poison Strike was removed and the mechanic added as an advancement option for Charge.
* Metabiotics added, allowing you to spend barrier ticks to enhance your spells.
* Vengeance added. Dying in battle may not be a bad idea...

__Slayer__
Slayer renamed to Shock Trooper, to better reflect [the game](http://masseffect.wikia.com/wiki/Vanguard#Class_Talent)
* Biotic Bull Rush was revamped slightly, giving the aspects of the Charger feat when using Charge.

* Champion renamed to Battle Master to better reflect its D&D counterpart.


#### Sentinel
* Removed 4th level spell slots from the progression table. Reflects that Sentinels are the least powerful of the biotic classes.
* Battle Master renamed to Mastermind, to better reflect their mastery of tactical situations.
  * Battle Master feat renamed to Tactical Advantage
* Paladin renamed to Guardian to better reflect the feature set (auras that guard allies).


### Spells & Powers
* Carnage renamed to "Beehive". Carnage is now a fighting style.
* Neural Shock updated, now a creature hit by neural shock can take reactions until the start of its next turn.
* Flare and Dominate changed to level 4 and Singularity changed to level 3 to better reflect the required biotic control.
* Damage rescaled on most biotic spells.

#### New Spells & Powers
__Tech__
* Snap Freeze
* Salvo
* Guidance
* Poison Spray
* Shocking Grasp
* Target Painting
* Unity
* Counterspell

__Biotic__
* Biotic Wall
* Storm
* Backlash
* Catapult
* Alter Center Mass
* Fly

__Combat__
* Fortification
