### General
* Added a note about race/class restrictions. Though we provide a rule of thumb, final decisions should be made by the GM.
* Created a Combat section in the rules to reduce the length of General rules. (Some rules now exist in multiple locations, if applicable to that category).

### Classes
* Removed Perception as skill option for Sentinels and Adepts. Added for Infiltrators & Soldiers.
* Vanguards weapon proficiency choices changed. Instead of automatically gaining shotguns, vanguards automatically gain melee and have the option of shotguns.
Vanguards are geared heavily towards a melee class and should gain that proficiency.

#### Adepts
* To accommodate the changes in Lift, Biotic Control allows the Adept to lift a target 1 size large than it's current capability.
* Barrier Ticks rescaled from 2-5

#### Engineers
Drones are now a stat block in the bestiary. As such, the Drone ability will summon the bestiary version. Medics
are still the only subclass that can access the Repair (Healing) drone.

Drone Jockeys are completely refactored. Though the multi-drone approach was fun, it significantly slowed down combat and proved slightly too powerful at all levels.
Instead, Drone Jockeys function almost identically to 5th Edition's Beast Conclave. You'll get to create a Drone Companion that persists outside of combat,
gains valuable stat and defensive increases, and has its own personality.

#### Sentinels
* Added barrier ticks (2-6) and the ability to cast Barrier, Barrier Detonation, Lash, and Phase Disruptor

#### Vanguards
* Varrier ticks rescaled, still from 3-10, but distributed more evenly across levels


### Races
* Volus Ability bonuses changed to reflect their race: intuitive with above-average intelligence (+2 wis, +1 int)
* Volus trait, Savvy Dealings, now gives proficiency in Persuasion. The "discounts from vendors" was too open-ended and could pidgeon-hole Volus players making all shop transactions.
* Unshackled-AI. Removed option of starting feat, balancing their lvl 1 options with other races.

### Spells
* __Invasion__ renamed to AI Hacking. Better elicits the spell mechanic and allows for creation of Andromeda's Invasion in the future.
* __Charge__, Advanced Option Necrotic Strike removed. Replaced with Barrier Regen. References classic Charge/Nova Vanguard from ME3. But primarily
gives Vanguards another option to regain barrier ticks.
* __Lift__, removed the "Sleep" mechanic and changed to a ranged spell attack. Cannot benefit from being cast at higher levels. Limited to Medium target.
  * _Advanced Option Control_, now a bonus action, reduced movement to 6m.
  * _Advanced Option Heavy Lift_, allows you to lift a Large object or creature.


