### Weapon Mods!
We've added weapon mods to the PHB. A whole new way to beef up your favorite guns! However we replaced the specialized thermal clips
with weapon mods, so the specialized thermal clips have been removed from the game.

### General
* Removed "Backgrounds" page. Information was incomplete and not applicable. Will be re-introduced when backgrounds are complete.
* Added basic information about resupply costs for items (Medi-gel, Heavy weapon charges, thermal clips, and grenades).
* The opportunity to quickly reload a weapon has been labeled "Rapid Reload," and is performed as a reaction to taking the Reload action.
However, the Rapid Reload reaction cannot be taken by a player wielding 2 weapons.
* Added Infrared Vision as a ersatz replacement for Truesight.

### Classes
Starting weapon choices adjusted:
* M-8 Avenger replaces M-96 Mattock
* M-4 Shuriken replaces M-25 Hornet
* M-92 Mantis replaces M-13 Raptor
* Fighting Style: amended to allow classes that learn this ability twice (soldiers, sentinels, & vanguards) to learn 2 initial perks from two different fighting styles or
one initial and one advanced perk from a single fighting style.
* Brawler Fighting style updated. Proficiency bonus added to melee attack damage rolls. Advantage on melee attacks moved to advanced perk.

#### Adepts
* Adepts learn 2 cantrips and 2 1st level spells at level 1. This makes up for the fact that Adepts do not gain any basic ability at level 1.
I.e., Engineers = Drone; Infiltrators = Tactical Cloak, Sentinel = Tech Armor, etc.
* Additional opportunities to learn biotic spells. Total opportunities = 16.

#### Engineers
* Engineer's Efficiency added at level 3, providing the engineer with a cantrip-like tech power.
* Additional opportunities to learn a tech powers. Total opportunities = 14

#### Infiltrators
* Tech power acquisition redistributed, allowing 9 opportunities to learn or advance tech powers (used to be 6).
* Tech point maximum increased to end at max 8, instead of max 6.

#### Sentinels
Overall, Sentinels were reworked to provide more opportunities to __learn__ biotic spells and tech powers, but they can never
cast those spells with the potency of Engineers or Adepts. This change also balances potential multi-classing. I.e., a multi-classed
Adept/Engineer could have 8 Tech Powers (max TP = 6) and 10 Biotic spells (max spell slot 3rd level). Whereas a max level Sentinel
could have 7 Tech Powers (max TP = 6) and 8 Biotic Spells (max spell slot 3rd level).

#### Vanguards
* Removed the automatic acquisition of Barrier at level 1. Instead, Vanguards can choose one of the following cantrips: Charge, Biotic Punch, Barrier, or Throw

* Removed Sentinel Mastery class feature, replaced with additional opportunity to learn a biotic spell and tech power.
* Increased the level at which Sentinels can learn biotic spells: 5th level = 1st level spells, 9th level = 2nd level spells, 15th level = 3rd level spells.
* Additional opportunities to learn a tech powers and biotic spells. Total opportunities = 15

### Races
* Krogan can be Engineers, this is in line with the Andromeda lore, and there is nothing relevant in the codex that would justify them
not being able to be Engineers.
* Removed confusing syntax about taking a feat. Before, site stated that Ability Score Improvements could be substituted for a feat "available to your race".
Feat acquisition is only limited during character creation for level 1 characters. Otherwise, all feats are available to all races.


### Weapons
* Added normal and long range distance to ranged weapons. Essentially, this added a limit to which weapons cannot be fired beyond.
* Melee weapon attack damage bypasses shields.
* Krogan Warhammer no longer stuns or pushes enemy back. Instead, has the possibility to knock the target prone.
* M-8 Avenger: RoF reduced to 3
* M-96 Mattock: Damage increased to d10
* M-4 Shuriken: Damage reduced to d1
* M-25 Hornet: Range increased to 8m
* M-13 Raptor: Damage increased to d8
* All Heavy Weapons are unique (cannot be modded)
* Double Tap allows Dex mod to be used when making the attack roll (not damage roll). Used to prevent dex mod from being applied to attack and damage roll. This bring the skill in line
with 5th Edition's Two-Weapon Fighting rules.

### Armor
* Increase potency cost of `+1 to melee, ranged, biotic, tech, or combat` attack and damage rolls from 8000/level to 12000/level. Bring this in line
with weapon mods cost.
* Potency should never be < 3

### Spells
* New cantrips: Biotic Push & Biotic Punch


### Site improvements
* Updated homepage, about page, news page, changelog
* Spell sorting/filtering added
* Fixed bug where Race page footer navigation had "Next class" as the button label
* Fixes bug where Biotic Walls advancement, Shifting Wall, did not display complete description.
