### General
#### Burst Fire
We've introduced a new weapon feature that borrows from the Dungeon Master's Guide, _Burst Fire_. Weapons with Burst Fire allow players to spend their action
"spraying and praying" giving a bit more variety to assault rifles and smgs.

#### Fighting styles
The advanced versions of fighting styles have been removed. Trying to balance advanced fighting styles proved difficult,
and many advanced versions we're too powerful. In addition, some fighting styles have been updated:
* Gunslinger: Effectively grants Two-Weapon fighting for ranged weapons. Though it can no longer stack with Double Tap, there is no damage penalty on the attack
made with your bonus action.
* The Freehand: Description clarified to provide bonus when wielding a weapon that is not two-handed
* Carnage: Replaced with damage reroll (similar to 5th Edition's Great Weapon Fighter).
* _(New)_ Close Quarters Shooter: Slightly less powerful version of 5th editions, the limitations are put in place because the majority of combat is ranged and the
benefit of the 5th edition version out-shined all other offensive fighting styles
* _(New)_ Assault: Increases your Burst Fire capability


### Races
All races have been provided with a flat 10,000 credit increase to their starting credits. Prior to the increase, average rolls were comparable to taking the starting equipment,
providing almost no benefit for gambling.

#### Salarians
* Photographic memory: Proficiency bonus is based only on ability checks for recalling information.


### Classes
#### Sentinels
* Removed the attainment of an advanced Fighting Style

#### Vanguards
* Removed the attainment of an advanced Fighting Style

### Spells
* __Backlash__: Change to a concentration spell, lasts 1 minute
* __Submission Net__: Refactored, the spell text was confusing. Now the focus is controlling targets and preventing Tech casting.
  * _Electrified Net_: Allows dealing damage to trapped targets
  * _Anti-Tech_: Can cast as a reaction when creature casts tech
* __Charge__
  * _Distance_: Removed. Was not as attractive as Barrier Regen
  * _Stunning Blow (new)_: Stuns target that fails saving throw. Provides a control option for players not investing in Barrier.
* __Biotic Push__: Removed. Between Throw and Biotic Punch, there was no niche that Biotic Push filled.
* __Dark Channel__: Damage reduced to d6. Dark Channel caused equivalent damage to 1st level spells. Instead of transferring to a _random_ creature,
transfers to the _nearest_ creature.
* __Dark Sphere__: Reduced duration to 1 minute.

### Weapons
* Added ML-77 Missile Launcher
* Added Collector Sniper Rifle

### Armor
The way AC is calculated has been changed. Prior, there was an AC penalty if you were not wearing armor, resulting in very low AC and
making it very dangerous to play a character without armor. Now, AC is granted by individual armor pieces.

### Bestiary


### Feats