### General
* Added a note about race/class restrictions. Though we provide a rule of thumb, final decisions should be made by the GM.
* Created a Combat section in the rules to reduce the length of General rules. (Some rules now exist in multiple locations, if applicable to that category).

### Classes
* Removed Perception as skill option for Sentinels and Adepts. Added for Infiltrators & Soldiers.
* Added additional information about spellcasting to each class page.
* Vanguards weapon proficiency choices changed. Instead of automatically gaining shotguns, vanguards automatically gain melee and have the option of shotguns.
Vanguards are geared heavily towards a melee class and should gain that proficiency.
* Sniper fighting style changed to +2(basic) and +4(adv) damage made with Sniper Rifles if no hostile creature is within 10m.

#### Adepts
* To accommodate the changes in Lift, Biotic Control allows the Adept to lift a target 1 size large than it's current capability.
* Barrier Ticks rescaled from 2-5

#### Engineers
Drones are now a stat block in the bestiary. As such, the Drone ability will summon the bestiary version. Medics
are still the only subclass that can access the Repair (Healing) drone.

Drone Jockeys are completely refactored. Though the multi-drone approach was fun, it significantly slowed down combat and proved slightly too powerful at all levels.
Instead, Drone Jockeys function almost identically to 5th Edition's Beast Conclave. You'll get to create a Drone Companion that persists outside of combat,
gains valuable stat and defensive increases, and has its own personality.

#### Sentinels
* Added barrier ticks (2-6) and the ability to cast Barrier, Barrier Detonation, Lash, and Phase Disruptor
* Increased spell and tech point progression. Sentinels gain 4th level spell slots. There are no 4th level spells for them. This is change is put in place to give them
higher-level spellcasting opportunities
* Sentinels can take the Protection fighting style.

#### Soldiers
##### Sharpshooter
All class features aligned with 5th Edition's Sharpershooter class from the [Unearthed Arcana](https://media.wizards.com/2016/dnd/downloads/2016_Fighter_UA_1205_1.pdf)

#### Vanguards
* Barrier ticks rescaled, still from 3-10, but distributed more evenly across levels

### Races
* Volus Ability bonuses changed to reflect their race: intuitive with above-average intelligence (+2 wis, +1 int)
* Volus trait, Savvy Dealings, now gives proficiency in Persuasion. The "discounts from vendors" was too open-ended and could pidgeon-hole Volus players making all shop transactions.
* Unshackled-AI. Removed option of starting feat, balancing their lvl 1 options with other races.
* Geth. Ability bonuses changed to +2 INT, +1 STR
* Quarian. Ability bonuses changed to +2 INT, +1 CON. Hermetic suit uses exhaustion rules when breached. Options for Cybernetic Augmentation changed.

### Spells
* __Invasion__ renamed to AI Hacking. Better elicits the spell mechanic and allows for creation of Andromeda's Invasion in the future.
* __Charge__, Advanced Option Necrotic Strike removed. Replaced with Barrier Regen. References classic Charge/Nova Vanguard from ME3. But primarily
gives Vanguards another option to regain barrier ticks.
* __Lift__, removed the "Sleep" mechanic and changed to a ranged spell attack. Cannot benefit from being cast at higher levels. Limited to Medium target.
  * _Advanced Option Control_, now a bonus action, reduced movement to 6m.
  * _Advanced Option Heavy Lift_, allows you to lift a Large object or creature.
* __Guidance__, bonus can be used on attack rolls. Limited to 1 target.
  * _Multi Tap_: Allows application og Guidance to 3 targets (must still cast the spell for each target).
* __Tactical Scan__, duration reduced from Infinite to 10 minutes


### Weapons
Overall, weapon damage has been reworked. They now have a 4-tier rarity: Common, Uncommon, Rare, Very Rare. Rate of Fire (RoF) has been removed. While we liked
the flavor it added, it didn't have any benefit other than flavor. And it was difficult to keep the flavor consistent among weapons.
Additionally, the range of weapon damage has been reduced.

#### Assault Rifles
* Adas Anti-Synthetic Rifle: 4d6 => 2d6, deals and additional 1d6 damage to synthetic targets.
* Cerberus Harrier: 4d4 => 2d6
* Geth Pulse Rifle: 6d4 => 2d6, deals radiant damage
* M-15 Vindicator: 3d4 => 1d10
* M-55 Argus: 3d6 => 1d12
* M-7 Lancer: 4d6 => 2d6
* M-76 Revenant: 5d4 => 3d4
* M-8 Avenger: 3d4 => 1d8
* M-96 Mattock: 1d10 => 1d8
* M-99 Saber: 1d10 => 3d6, customization options changes
* N7 Typhoon: 5d4 => 2d8
* N7 Valkyrie: 2d6 => 2d8
* Particle Rifle: 6d4 => 2d10
* Phaeston: 4d4 => 2d4
* Striker Assault Rifle: 4d6 => 1d12, special updated, can start targeting to deal additional damage

#### Heavy Pistols
* Acolyte: 1d8 => 1d6
* Arc Pistol: 1d8 => 1d6
* Executioner Pistol: 1d12 => 2d12
* M-358 Talon: 2d8 => 2d6
* N7 Eagle: 4d4 => 2d4
* Scorpion: 1d8 => 1d6

#### Melee
* Asari Huntress Sword: 1d6 => 1d8
* Krogan Warhammer: 1d12 => 2d6 (1d12 as a one-handed weapon)
* Monomolecular blade: 1d8 => 1d10
* Omni-blade: 1d6 => 1d8
* Omni-hammer: 1d8 => 1d10
* Omni-whip: 1d8 => 2d4

#### Shotguns
* AT-12 Raider: 2d10 => 2d8
* Disciple: 2d6 => 2d4
* Geth Plasma Shotgun: 2d12 => 2d10
* Graal Spike Thrower: 2d12 => 2d6. Reduced additional damage to 1d6
* M-11 Wraith: 2d10 => 3d6
* M-27 Scimitar: 3d4 => 2d4
* M-300 Claymore: 4d12 => 3d8
* N7 Crusader: 2d6 => 2d10
* N7 Piranha: 2d10 => 2d4
* Reegar Carbine: 2d4 => 1d12

#### SMGs
* Blood Pack Punisher: 4d6 => 3d4, +1 to hit within normal range instead of +2
* Collector SMG: 4d6 => 2d8
* M-12 Locust: 4d4 => 3d4
* M-25 Hornet: 3d4 => 2d4
* M-4 Shuriken: 6d1 => 2d4
* M-9 Tempest: 4d4 => 2d6
* N7 Hurricane: 4d6 => 3d6

#### Sniper Rifles
* Black Widow: 4d10 => 2d12, increased heat to 3. Added ignores half cover and deals 1d4 extra damage on targets not behind cover. Essentially the heavier, higher heat version of the M-98 Widow
* Javelin: Ignores half AND three-quarters cover (more in line with fiction, as it's the highest piercing weapon)
* Kishock Harpoon Gun: 1d12 => 3d6. Added CON save for bleeding damage. Bleeding damage increased to 3d6.
* Krysae Sniper Rifle: 1d10 => 2d4
* M-13 Raptor: 1d8 => 1d10
* M-90 Indra: 4d6 => 2d8, increased heat to 10
* M-92 Mantis: 1d10 => 2d8
* M-97 Viper: 1d8 => 1d12
* M-98 Widow: 1d12 => 2d12. Removed "ignores three-quarters cover", reduced additional damage to 1d4
* N7 Valiant: 1d8 => 2d8. Removed +2 on ranged attack rolls, added "Can reload as a bonus action"

#### Weapon Mods
* Rename "core" type to "ammo"
* Cranial Trauma Mod: Limit to one level (1 additional damage die on critical hit)
* Power magnifier: Limit to one level (currently lvl 3 has potential to add +9 with some subclasses).
* Concentration Mod: Limit to one level (19-20 crit)
* Piercing Mod: Rename piercing ammo. Negates resistance to piercing damage.
* Shredder mod: Renamed shredder ammo. Changes damage to slashing. Negates resistance to slashing damage.
* Quick release magazine: Limit to 1 level. "You may reload as a bonus action"
* Magazine upgrade: Limit to 1 level. Weapon gains a bonus to heat equal to 1/2 it's base heat score. (useless for 1 heat weapons)
* Extended Magazine: New. Weapon gains a bonus to heat equal to twice it's base heat score (limited for 1 heat weapons)
* Heat sink: removed

### Armor

###3 Armor Mechanics
* shields: reduced potency to 5 to allow shield stacking on different pieces of equipment
* shield regen: increase cost to 8,000
* attack bonus (+1 to attack and damage bonus) => only allowed for melee weapons
* __New__: reroll any 1 on your [biotic, tech, ranged, or melee] damage rolls => cost 20,000
* reroll any 1 on your [biotic, tech, ranged, or melee] damage rolls = cost increase to 40,000
* __Removed__: additional damage die for [biotic, tech] spell
* Damage or Condition Immunity => cost increase 25,000 (cannot be piercing, slashing, or bludgeoning)
* Resistance to 1 damage type => cost increase to 15,000, except for piercing damage (30,000)
* __Removed__: Increase hit points by 1/2 level
* Instantly stabalize when you drop below 0 hit points => cost reduced 35,000
* __Removed__: Increase weapon heat
* AC Increase => price increased to 10,000

#### Armor Mods
* VI aiming (+2 bonus to ranged weapon attack and damage rolls) => reroll any 1 on your ranged weapon damage rolls, 20,000 credits
* Weapon stabalizers (+1 bonus to ranged weapon attack and damage rolls) => reroll any 1 on your ranged weapon damage rolls, 20,000 credits
* Focus Modulator (You gain a +2 bonus to ranged weapon, biotic, and tech attack rolls) => Basically will give the wearer the ability to cast hunter's mark, 3/long rest, 40,000 credits
* Armor Plating renamed Ceramic Weave
* __Removed__: Ceramic Weave
* Ablative Coating (+2 AC) => Resistance to piercing damage, 30,000 credits
* Asymmetric Defense Layer (+2 AC. Increase your hit points by half your level, minimum 1.) => +2 AC, 20,000 credits.
* Energized Plating (+3 AC) => price increase 30,000 credits
* Personal Disruptor Torpedoes => damage decreased to 3d12
* Microservos (Arms) => price increase 24,000
* Microservos (Legs, +2 melee attack and damage rolls) => +1 melee attack and damamge rolls, 12,000
* Revive AI => Price decreased to 50,000
* Life support webbing (Increase your hit points by half your level, minimum 1.) => Increases your maximum exhaustion by 1 level. At the first level, you suffer no negative effects. 15,000 credits
* Shield capacity (arms) => reduced to 5 sp, 10,000 credits
* Sentry System (head) => reduced to 5 sp, 10,000 credits
* Shield battery (chest) => reduced to 5 sp, 10,000 credits
* Shield Modulator (chest) => reduced to 10 sp, 20,000 credits
* Shield Interface (chest) => reduced to 15 sp, 30,000 credits
__Note__ this makes max shields from mods = 45 (5 base, 5 arms, 5 head, 5 + 10 + 15 chest)
* All shield regen => increase cost to 8,000
* Archon AI (gain spells slots on a short rest) => increase cost 24,000
* Recharge capacitors => changed mechanic to reaction instead of free action
* __New__ Teflon Coating, resistance to radiation, 15,000
* Barrier (5 barrier ticks/long rest) => reduced to 3 barrier ticks, recharge on short rest, 24,000
* Umbra AI => increase cost to 40,000, tech powers only
* Adrenaline Regulators => increase cost to 40,000
* Savant Biotic Amplifier (add damage die on biotic rolls) => reroll 1&2 on biotc spells, 40,000
* Mag Latches => increase cost to 25,000
* Thermal armor => increase cost to 25,000

#### Armor Sets
In general, the cost is 15% less than if you had crafted the armor from scratch, since armor sets cannot be upgrade later.

* Serrice Adaptor Gauntlets => cannot select bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing resistance
* Mantis Armor => +1 AC. Increase your speed by 4m. Increase your grenade capacity by 2.
* Collector Armor => reworked: +3 AC, auto-stabalize and medi-gel
* N7 Defender Armor => reworked: 20 shields (regen 10). +2 AC. Increase thermal clip capacity by 4. Increase grenade capacity by 2
* Terminus Assault Armor => 10 shields (regen 5). Speed +4m. When you lose hit points, as a reaction, you may expend a charge of medi-gel. +2 bonus to melee attack and damage rolls
* Cerberus Nightmare Armor => remove heat +2, instead double base heat. remove + to ranged attacks and damage.
* Blood Dragon Armor => remove + to tech and biotic attack and damage rolls, replace with reroll 1's on tech/biotic damamge
* Cerberus Ajax Armor => rework: 30 shields (15 regen). +1 AC. Increase your thermal clip capacity by 8. Increase your grenade capacity by 4.
* Cerberus Shade Armor => rework: 10 shields & regen, shield jumpstart, +1 bonus to melee attack and damage
* Inferno Armor => rework: When you lose hit points, as a reaction, you may expend a charge of medi-gel. +1 bonus to biotic and tech attack and damage rolls.
* Reckoner Knight Armor => rework: 15 shields (regen 5). When you roll a 1 or 2 on a damage die for an attack you make with a melee weapon, you can reroll the die and must use the new roll, even if the new roll is a 1 or a 2.
* Partisan Armor => immune to poisoned
* N7 Armor => rework: 10 shields (regen 10). +1 AC
* Kestrel Helmet => reduce +AC to 1
* Kuwashii Visor => rework. basically gives hunter's mark.
* Archon Visor => limited to 1/2 level of a specific class
* Umbra visor => reroll 1 instead of 1 & 2, limited to tech powers
* Mnemonic Visor => rework: reroll 1 on biotic spells
* Delumcore Overlay => rework: -1 AC. 1 additional damage die on critical hit
* Death Mask => rework: +1 AC. +1 on melee attack and damamge rolls
* Recon hood => rework: Infrared Vision 60m. Darkvision 60m. You can toggle between the 2 vision types as a free action.
* Strider leggaurds => remove adv. on Dex checks and saving throws, replace with +6m speed
