### General

#### Burst Fire
We've introduced a new weapon feature that borrows from the Dungeon Master's Guide, _Burst Fire_. Weapons with Burst Fire allow players to spend their action
"spraying and praying" giving a bit more variety to assault rifles and smgs.

#### Backgrounds
Have been added! They're ok but could use a lot of work and we're open to new suggestions, so please leave us [feedback](/contributing)

#### Tool proficiencies
Have also been added to accompany backgrounds. They're also a work in progress and the starship systems are not filled out as
we're still in the process of creating that ruleset.

#### Omni-gel
Omni-gel is a new resource that is necessary to power tool kit abilities.

#### Fighting styles
The advanced versions of fighting styles have been removed. Trying to balance advanced fighting styles proved difficult,
and many advanced versions we're too powerful. In addition, some fighting styles have been updated:
* Gunslinger: Effectively grants Two-Weapon fighting for ranged weapons. Though it can no longer stack with Double Tap, there is no damage penalty on the attack
made with your bonus action.
* The Freehand: Description clarified to provide bonus when wielding a weapon that is not two-handed
* Carnage: Replaced with damage reroll (similar to 5th Edition's Great Weapon Fighter).
* _(New)_ Close Quarters Shooter: Slightly less powerful version of 5th editions, the limitations are put in place because the majority of combat is ranged and the
benefit of the 5th edition version out-shined all other offensive fighting styles
* _(New)_ Assault: Increases your Burst Fire capability

#### Barrier
Barrier has been removed as a cantrip. Instead, barrier is a class feature available to Adepts, Sentinels, and Vanguards.
For a full justification, see the [blog post](/news/b-bb-b) about the change.

#### Cantrips
Instead of learning cantrips as part of your spell gains, you instead learn cantrips as you progress in your class level.
In short, you know a number of cantrips (advanced count as 2 cantrips) based on the number of cantrips known on your progression table.


### Races
All races have been provided with a flat 10,000 credit increase to their starting credits. Prior to the increase, average rolls were comparable to taking the starting equipment,
providing almost no benefit for gambling.

#### Salarians
* Photographic memory: Proficiency bonus is based only on ability checks for recalling information.


### Classes

#### Adepts
* __Blackstar__: Biotic Control, Lift and Pull names are swapped (see spells below). Additionally, the Lift portion provides advantage when maintaining the spell.

#### Infiltrator
* Tactical cloak: Added a duration of 1 minute

#### Sentinels
* Removed the attainment of an advanced Fighting Style
* __Bastion__: _Assault Armor_, clarified the wording of this feature. Added additional saving throws for affected targets.

#### Vanguards
* Removed the attainment of an advanced Fighting Style
* __Shock Trooper__: Biotic Slash now detonates a primed target.


### Spells
* __Backlash__: Change to a concentration spell, lasts 1 minute
* __Charge__
  * _Distance_: Removed. Was not as attractive as Barrier Regen
  * _Stunning Blow (new)_: Stuns target that fails saving throw. Provides a control option for players not investing in Barrier.
* __Biotic Push__: Removed. Between Throw and Biotic Punch, there was no niche that Biotic Push filled.
* __Biotic Pumch__: Flat barrier tick gain. Casting time is an Action.
  * _Siphoning Strike_: Gain 10 shield points.
* __Dark Channel__: Damage reduced to d6. Dark Channel caused equivalent damage to 1st level spells. Instead of transferring to a _random_ creature,
transfers to the _nearest_ creature.
* __Dark Sphere__: Reduced duration to 1 minute.
* __Lash__: Removed barrier tick cost. Set range of 10m.
* __Lift__: Has been renamed _Pull_, as the mechanics of this spell better reflect _Pull_ in Mass Effect 2, 3, and Andromeda
* __Pull__: Has been renamed _Lift_ and refactored, becoming a cantrip for moving objects around with a mass effect field.
* __Sabotage__: Removed the attack roll, but increased cost. Added saving throw for weapons that are a part of creatures.
  * _Backfire_: Replaces Disable. Deals damage back at attacker.
* __Sentry Turret__: Added duration of 1 minute.
* __Slam__: Clarified that this spell can be used on a creature.
  * _Reaction_: Replaces Improved Damage. Allows Slam to be cast as a reaction.
* __Slow Fall__: Added advanced options
  * _Improved Duration_: 5 min duration
  * _Navigate_: Can direct the movement of the fall.
* __Submission Net__: Refactored, the spell text was confusing. Now the focus is controlling targets and preventing Tech casting.
  * _Electrified Net_: Allows dealing damage to trapped targets
  * _Anti-Tech_: Can cast as a reaction when creature casts tech
* __Throw__: Increased damage to d8. Added Medium or smaller restriction to push back.
  * _Radial Blast_: Replaces Improved Force. Deals damage to all creatures within 2m sphere of initial target.


### Weapons
* Added ML-77 Missile Launcher
* Added Collector Sniper Rifle


### Armor
The way AC is calculated has been changed. Prior, there was an AC penalty if you were not wearing armor, resulting in very low AC and
making it very dangerous to play a character without armor. Now, AC is granted by individual armor pieces.


### Bestiary
We've redistributed CRs in the bestiary. The abilities and features have remained the same, but some stats (primarily attack
damage and hit points) have been adjusted.