---
length: 742
title: 'Mods'
new: true
---

Armor and Weapon mods allow you to upgrade your equipment, providing powerful bonuses. Weapon and armor mods have their
own costs. Operatives who are proficient with Tinker's tools can craft mods but most can be purchased from your local equipment
shop. Once you've acquired your mod, you can install it yourself (if you're proficient with Armorsmith's, Tailor's, or
Weaponsmith's tools) or you can have an equipment shop install it for you.

### Removing Mods
In general, mods cannot be removed. Those proficient with Armorsmith's, Tailor's, or Weaponsmith's tools may attempt to
salvage mods ad the risk of destroying the weapon or armor and all other installed mods. Equipment shops around the galaxy
typically won't offer this service for fear of a lawsuit.

### Weapon Mods
Each weapon has 4 mod slots: Magazine, Body, Core, and Barrel.
The weapon is only allowed one mod per slot. For example, the M-8 Avenger cannot have the Ultralight Materials and the
Precision Scope, because both of those mods utilize the Body slot. Unlike armor mods, weapon mods can be removed from
weapons without any damage to the weapon or mod. In this example, the player could choose to replace Ultralight Materials for the Precision Scope.

Additionally, some mods are limited by weapon type. For example, the Stunner mod is only available for placement on Heavy
Pistols and SMGs. You cannot add weapon mods to _special_ or _melee_ weapons.

### Armor Mods
Installing armor mods requires you to craft or purchase a piece of customizable armor. See
the Creating Armor section above. Each piece of customizable armor
has a set number of mod slots. You must select a mod with a matching armor piece, i.e. chest, head, legs, or arms.

<v-btn to="/phb/armor/mods" color="primary">Armor Mods</v-btn> <v-btn to="/phb/weapon-mods" color="primary" class="ml-3">Weapon Mods</v-btn>