---
length: 794
title: 'Crew'
---

All starships require some amount of crew to remain functional and the more systems your ship has the more crew it will
need. The __minimum crew__ attribute of your ship indicates the number of people you need to operate and maintain the
ship. Every minimum crew member is linked to at least 1 starship system.

### Roleplaying Crew
You can treat crew as NPCs or as an abstract number. Though we highly suggest the former. Crew do not require a stat
block; a name, description, and alignment are generally enough.

### Operatives as Crew
Characters may instead choose to take the role of a crew member and perform the duties that a hired NPC would do. However,
to do this requires the character to spend their free time performing the duties that the crew member would have done.
The character must also be proficient in the system they want to maintain. Special systems (like the rec room or med-bay)
do not require a proficiency and __combined systems__ only require to be proficient in one of the systems that are combined.

> #### __An operative that chooses to take on the role of a crew member must spend at least 1 long rest per month maintaining the system__.

<br>

### Paying Crew
Your crew expects to live a modest lifestyle. The owner(s) of the ship must pay each crew member 150 credits per day. At the
end of each month, multiply your required crew by 150 and again by 30. If you cannot pay the total amount, you either
pay none of it (at which point all members crew become disgruntled) or you pay all of it and roll a d6. The result is the
number of crew that become disgruntled.

### Extended Space Travel
Living on a starship for an extended period of time is difficult and can aggravate even the most experienced space
travelers. For every week you spend traveling the galaxy, you must spend one long rest at port. The port must be at a
settled world in a town or city.

Failure to spend a long rest at port can potentially cause your crew to become disgruntled. Every time you skip a day at
port, roll a d6. The result is the number of crew that become disgruntled.

### Disgruntled Crew
Disgruntled crew cause problems. They get in fights, slack off, leave for better jobs, and may even mutiny! When you
start a long rest on board your ship, if you have at least 1 disgruntled crew member, roll a d20, add the number of
disgruntled crew on board to the roll. Then consult the Disgruntled Crew table.

<ai-dialog title="Disgruntled Crew" component="disgruntled-crew"/>

<br>

#### Dealing with disgruntled crew
You reduce the number of disgruntled crew in the following ways:
- Fire the disgruntled crew member. You will need to find a replacement for that crew member's system. At the GM's
  discretion, this may also cause more crew to become disgruntled.
- Throw the crew member out an airlock. You will need to find a replacement for that crew member's system. In
  addition, roll a d6. The result is the number of additional crew that become disgruntled due to your actions. _Note:
  advisable when a majority of the crew is disgruntled. Best practices suggest throwing the entire crew out the airlock
  in these situations and hiring entirely new crew at a port_.
- Provide bonus pay equal to one week's salary (1,050 credits)
- Provide an extended stay at a port (2 long rests worth)

<br>

If your group has created NPCs for each of your crew, the GM might add new ways for the crew to become disgruntled. If
you ignore a distress signal, a good crew member might become disgruntled. Of if you hand over a large cache to the
authorities, a chaotic or evil crew member might become disgruntled. Additionally, the GM can adjudicate other creative
ways to make disgruntled crew contented again. Some may like music, some games and your characters can roleplay situations
that result in a pleased crew member.
