---
length:
title: 'Tech'
new: true
---

Tech spells rely on the character's omni-tool: a multipurpose diagnostic and manufacturing tool as well as computer used
for a variety of civilian and battlefield tasks, such as hacking, decryption, or repair. Higher-end omni-tools are
equipped by Engineers, Sentinels, and Infiltrators to make use of their tech talents and powers. When activated, an
omni-tool can appear over either of a person's forearms and/or hands, and occasionally both, as an orange hologram.


### Omni-tool Memory
Unlike biotic users, tech users can program new spells and powers into their omni-tool like loading software onto a computer.
However, due to the complexity of the programs omni-tools can only support a limited number of programs. This limitation
is referred to as the Omni-tool's __memory__. As characters progress in their level, they are able to improve the memory
capacity of their omni-tool either by adding additional memory, running caching algorithms, or simply purchasing a better
omni-tool. The rate at which your memory increases is based on your class and outlined in the class's spellcasting section.



### Known Spells and Spell Load
Every tech spell has a load from 0 to 5. A spell's load is a general indicator of how powerful it is but it is also the
memory cost of loading the spell onto an operative's omni-tool. For example, if an omni-tool has a memory of 6, and the
character loads flamethrower onto their tool (3 load). The character has 3 more load for spells.

During a long rest, characters can remove and add any number spells they have programmed into their omni-tool, as long
as the total Load is equal to or less than the omni-tool's memory.

#### Advanced Spells
Tech spells also have advanced versions (variations of the program) that characters can load onto their omni-tool instead
of the basic spell. This advancemed options typically cost more memory (i.e., has a higher load) as indicated on the advanced
option. This cost is in-addition to the base cost of the spell. For example, an engineer that wants to use the _Ice Lance_
option of Cryo Blast must use 3 memory (1 for cryo blast and 2 for the ice lance advancement).

Although you can load both advanced options, you are required to load the base spell twice as well. Thus, an engineer who
wants both advancement options of Cryo Blast would need to use 5 memory (1 for cryo blast and 2 for ice lance _then_
1 for cryo blast and 1 for frigid air).



### Tech Points
Regardless of how many spells a tech user has programmed into their omni-tool, he or she can cast only a limited number
of spells before their omni-tool must recharge. Fabricating super-heated plasma takes a lot of energy and drains the power
of the omni-tool. This drain is tracked using __tech points__. Each tech class's description includes a table showing
how many tech points a character has at each character level.

When a character casts a spell, he or she expends the number of tech points as indicated in the spell's description. If
the character does not have the requirement number of tech points, he or she cannot cast the spell.

Fortunately, tech points regenerate more quickly than biotic spell slots, primarily because tech users are relying on
a piece of equipment to recharge, not their physical and mental states.

Finishing a short rest restores tech points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting modifier.
Finishing a long rest restores all expended tech points.

Some characters and monsters have special abilities that let them cast spells without using tech point, as with Engineer's
Efficiency an some drones.



### Casting a Spell for more Tech Points
Tech spellcasters can pump more "juice" to the spell by spending additional tech points making the spell more powerful,
as detailed in a spell's description.

However, the number of additional tech points that a tech spellcaster can use is limited by their proficiency bonus. For
example, a 1st-level infiltrator can only spend up to 2 additional tech points when they cast a spell. An 18th-level sentinel
can spent up to 6.