### General
* Medi-gel is basically a health potion.
* Shields regenerate after combat in addition to a short or long rest, or by taking the Hide or Dodge action
and taking no damage.
* Armor proficiency moved back to the class (not race). To compensate this change, the 5,000 credit cost for race customization has been removed.

### Skills
* _Hacking_ renamed _Electronics_ to encompass a wide variety of checks.
* _Nature_ renamed _Science_ as a catch-all for scientific intelligence checks. In theory, most information needs can be found with
a quick search on the exonet. This check involves making connections between facts based on experience or intellect.
* _Piloting_ renamed _Vehicle Handling_ and base ability changed to Dex. This covers your ability to maneuver vehicles. The GM
can also ask for a Wisdom (Vehicle Handling) check when attempting to drive unfamiliar or alien vehicles.

### Weapons
Almost all weapon weights have been reduced by 1-2. The exception is a few Heavy Weapons.

#### Omni-weapons
Omni-weapons replace void left by omni-tool attacks. They are light weapons that take no weapon slot and take a free action
to draw. This gives players the option of having a back-up, at-the-ready melee attack.
* Added Omni-Taser & Omni-Hammer added

#### Other weapon changes
* __Asari Huntress Sword__ & __Asari Warsword__ combined into one weapon. Only allows casting of cantrip.
* Cerberus Operator Blade renamed Monomolecular Blade
* M-98 Widow deals double damage to targets not behind cover, replacing the complex and unrealistic 'line-damage' to creatures behind the target.

### Feats
* Melee Specialist:
  * with two-handed ranged weapon, can attack with an omni-weapon
  * with one-handed ranged weapon, can attack with light or versatile (w/ one hand) weapon
  * only melee, removed +1 AC (benefit available w/ Dual wielder feat)
* Added Dual Wielder feat

### Classes
* Dual Wield fighting style renamed Gunslinger to avoid confusion with the Dual Wielder feat
* Engineer's _Styptic_ Medi-gel Enhancement increases the potency of the medi-gel.

### Bestiary Updates
* Husk, Str increased to 13, AC increased to 14, CR decreased to 1/8
* Abomination, Str increased to 13, HP increased to 26, CR increased to 1/4
* Collector Captain, Summon Seaker Swarm summons 1d4 swarms at an unoccupied space it can see within 10m.
* Harbinger, Added legendary actions, added melee attack, added Dark Channel to spell list

### Site Enhancements
* Fixed bug that showed `Shields 0 ( regen)` when a monster had no shields.
* Added Distance rule change back into general rules.
* Fixed bug that caused side navigation menu to sometimes not show up.