### Site Enhancements
* Rule dialogs added for quick reference.
* Tooltips added for conditions
* Special thermal clips added as possible npc feature in the grunt generator.
* Spell cards added to printables section
* Bookmarks allow you to save spells, weapons, and npcs for quick reference

### Rule Changes
* Reloading updated. Players may attempt to reload as a bonus action.
* Shields
  * Flat temporary HP that no longer increase with level
  * Gained from armor and items, not inherent to the player character
  * Regenerate fully on a short/long rest
  * Regenerate in combat if the player takes the Dodge or Hide action then takes no damage until the start of the player's next turn.
* Primer and Detonator rules added as variant rule.

### Thermal Clips
* New thermal clips added: Drill, Explosive, Phasic
* Thermal clip mechanics changed to account for addition of primer and detonators.

### Armor Mods & Sets
Armor or mods that granted an increase in shield regen die type, now increase shield regen by 5.
Armor sets that had +shield points, have the total shields and regen amount listed.

### Spells & Powers
Any spell effect that had a player 'gain shield points', now only effects players wearing armor.
* Annihilation Field: __Drain__ option replaced with __Phasic__, which bypasses shields.
* Shocking touch: __Absorbing Shock__ option replaced with __Reach__, increasing the range of the power.
* Siege Pulse: Shield point cost reduced to 5.

### Bestiary
Collector forces added.
Reaper forces added (excluding Reaper Destroyers and Reaper Capital Ships).

### Races

#### Geth
* Hunter Mode: No longer reduces shields. Movement increase reduced to 2m, attack bonus reduced to +1. Soldier class bonus reduced to only necrotic and force damage resistance.