---
layout: post
title: "v0.7.1"
description: "Changelog for Mass Effect 5e v0.7.1"
date: 2018-05-19
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/0/08/Fehl_prime_-_biotic_balls.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/640?cb=20130122172423
---

## General
* Monsters and NPCs that used grenades now have a Recharge 5-6 for grenades, rather than a set number of grenades. The recharge
is not meant to indicate that the NPC is literally regenerating a grenade over time, but a random chance that the PC has more grenades.
* Added a rule set about expenses, currency, buying and selling.

## Races
* Salarian's photographic memory offered expertise in skills that are no longer in the game.

## Classes
* Removed Stun Baton from starting weapon options (it is an uncommon weapon). Replaced with Omni-Torch for Engineers.
* Increase range of Tech Aura (__Guardian Sentinel__) from 4m/10m => 10m/20m

## Spells
* __Vortex__: Changed damage type to force.
* __Slam__: Changed damage type to bludgeoning.
* __Singularity__: Affects creatures AND objects, instead of only hostile creatures.
* __Barrier Detonation__: Changes to DEX save instead of Hit Point roll.
* __Biotic Push__: Removed "target is knocked prone". This is now an advanced option, replacing Deadly Push.
* __Target Painting__: Reduced the duration to 1 round of combat. Since this is based on Faerie Fire which requires concentration, it didn't make sense for
this spell to have infinite length.

## Weapons
* There was an error in the cost calculation formula making the weapon costs too high.
* __Black Widow__; was missing its additional benefits (ignores half cover, 1d4 additional damage to targets not behind cover)
* __Hip Fire__: Removed the advantage that hip-fire provided on targets within 2m. This was an unfair benefit over melee weapons.
* __Shotguns__: Reduced long range to double normal range instead of triple.
* __SMGs__: Hip fire added to most SMGs

## Bestiary
* __Rocket Drone__: now has a range for it's distortion rockets

## Feats
* __Hair Trigger__: Limited to a single Double Tab weapon (i.e., cannot stack with Gunsliger). Allows 1 additional ranged attack per turn as a free action.
Additionally, the +DEX bonus is added to the _damage_ roll not the _attack_ roll.