### Spells

__Backlash__
* Added the note that this applies to the triggering attack.
* Changed the wording to allow this to block damage from ranged spell attacks (not just weapon attacks)
* Added note that reflecting damage cannot be triggered by a heavy weapon (they're technically ranged attacks)
* Reduced the higher level hp increase to 10 instead of 20. At +20 hp, a 5th level cast was 75 additional hp...seemed a
bit much. This also brings the spell in line with 5th's Armor of Agathys.
* In the same vein, removed the additional hp at higher level casts from Durable advancement. Total hp gain on durable
is now 60 instead of 75.
* Clarified the issue with remaining damage and reflecting damage back at the attacker with "If damage that would be dealt
to the aegis...". RAW would be: Aegis has 1HP remaining. Player is hit with a ranged weapon attack for 10 damage. First,
split the damage (5 and 5). 5 is dealt back at the attack. 1 is dealt to the aegis. 4 is dealt to the player.

__Biotic Orbs__
* Now a concentration spell, limiting potential spamming of higher level casts and prevents spell from stacking
* Casting a spell costs orbs, clearing up the casting mechanic
* Added action cost to the ranged attack
* Defensive orbs was underpowered compared to improved orbs. Retribution has more potential and works as a panic button
to get use out of the orbs if the player's concentration fails

__Biotic Sphere__
* Keeps out all hostile creatures, consequently removes the advantage on creatures within it.
* Increased hit points
* Clarifies how the damage and attacks are delegated. Essentially, when you're in the barrier, you can't be hit. The barrier takes all the damage.
* Because this represents an increase in the spells power, and the fact that biotic wall is also a 3rd level spell, this spell was made 4th level
* _Infuse ammo_ doesn't reduce the sphere's hp and increased the damage to 1d6
* _Armored_ gained resistance to thunder damage. 100 hp with resistance to the most standard damage types seemed a bit much, so reduced the starting hp to 75

__Biotic Wall__
* using cm instead of inches (for consistency)
* _Shifting wall_ is a bonus action, not reaction because there was nothing to trigger the reacgion

__Fly__
* There was an error that showed an old version of Lift for this spell. Fly now works similarly to 5th edition's fly spell

__Lash__
* Lash used to cost barrier ticks and automatically hit. The barrier tick cost was removed, but not the auto-hit, making
this spell too powerful. The auto-hit has been replaced with a ranged spell attack.

__Stasis__
* Increased the range, reduced the duration
* Targets in stasis have damage resistance as they did in the Mass Effect games
* Vulnerable advancement option didn't make sense because of the damage resistance, this was changed to shatter,
which builds up damage over time.

__Warp__
* Increased range.
* Clarified what it meant to stabilize a creature. In 5th, you can only stabilize an unconscious creature, so this simply states what needs to be done.
* Removed the "knocked prone" portion of "Keel Over" as this inhibits ranged attacks. Because of this, it needed to be renamed, Disorient.

### Bestiary

Added images to bestiary

Mass Accelerator Machine Gun attacks are now ranged weapon attacks. This affects the following monsters:
- Sentry Turret
- Turret
- Geth Colossus
- Geth Armature

Added INT saving throw for the following geth, making them harder to affect with AI Hacking.
  - Geth Armature
  - Geth Colossus
  - Geth Prime
  - Geth Hunter

__New__
- YMIR Mech
- LOKI Mech
- FENRIS Mech
- Rachni Worker
- Rachni Soldier
- Rachni Brood Warrior
- Rachni Queen
