---
layout: post
title: "v0.8.0"
description: "Backgrounds, Bestiary Bump, and Barrier"
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/6/60/Kasumi_Briefing.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/800?cb=20100617000152
---

### Backgrounds
This homebrew is a work in progress. Instead of spending years behind closed doors and delivering
a prefect product, our philosophy is to publish content quickly so players can test it and then we refine later. So before you
get too excited about backgrounds, note that this is the first draft. The same goes for the tool proficiencies. As you'll
quickly realize, some backgrounds reference Starship System proficiencies. These proficiencies are currently
stubs and have no in-game mechanics. We're working on a larger starship rule set, which we'll release in v0.9.0.

As this is brand new content, we would love to hear your [feedback and ideas](/contributing).

### Bestiary Bump
As the bestiary has grew a problem became terribly evident: there were too many low-CR monsters. If you want numbers, ~90%
of the bestiary was found between CRs 1/8 and 3. This presents a primary problem for high-level characters because there
was a severe lack of content for them to run. So the bestiary "bump" is our redistribution of CRs, increasing the CRs of
most monsters. Monsters that have had CR increases have had their stat blocks updated to reflect those changes.

The benefit of this change is distributing monsters throughout CR levels, which allows more opportunities boss battles
and improves experience gain. As with most games, killing numerous low-level npcs is never as productive as killing a single
high-level npc. This redistribution gives players across all levels more high-level monsters to fight.

However, some will find issue that this feels like an overall "nerf" to their characters. I.e., in previous versions
a level 1 character could easily take out a variety of forces Cerberus & Geth Troopers, Husks, etc. The new version
increases the difficultly of these "starting" monsters. We understand this is a drastic difference from the game and that
level 1 characters will not feel as powerful. We would like to offer the following reconceptualization of level 1 characters:

In the games, you play as Shepard, who is a highly-skilled, well-trained solder. You captain a ship and have achieved some
of the highest ranks in the military. Thus, we see Shepard as a level 12-15 character and his/her ability to easily
mow down opponents is due to their higher level. As a level 1 character, your still green. You may have some experience
but its not enough to easily down a whole platoon of cerberus troopers.

### Barrier
Barrier has proved to be a difficult ability to figure out. One of the primary problems is that barrier has changed between
every game. Here are the iterations:

* Mass Effect 1: Active boost in shields points, specifically providing an additional layer of shields for a duration
* Mass Effect 2: Active boost to overall damage reduction
* Mass Effect 3:Vanguards and Adepts had a 'biotic barrier' instead of shields which powered some biotic abilities.
There was also a power called Barrier that worked like ME2, but had a new barrier detonation component.
* Mass Effect: Andromeda: Passive bonuses to shields

Since the onset of the project, we've wanted to keep unique and iconic powers, one of which was the Nova Vanguard which
grew in popularity in Mass Effect 3. So we created a system that could improve spells by using a resource _other than_ spell slots.
But this has added a dimension of spell complexity not found in 5th edition. The other problem was barrier ticks, a class
resource that could only be regenerated with a cantrip. This ultimated made the cantrip mandatory. Therefore, we've made Barrier
a class feature available to Adepts, Sentinels, and Vanguards.

Here is the breakdown of the changes:
* "_Nerfs_"
  * Scaling damage reduction removed, instead classes gain increased damage reduction at specific levels.
  * Barrier has a limited number of casts based on your class level
* "_Buffs_"
  * Barrier can be cast as an action or bonus action
  * Having an active barrier does not reduce speed

We hope that this makes barrier less confusing without completely overhauling the system.

### Spell Reviews
Our Barrier changes came about from a spell review. We've slowly working through all of our spells, testing, theory-crafting, and
discussing changes. This process should help clarify spell text and make advanced options more attractive. We've finished cantrips
and will be working through the other biotic spell levels, tech, and combat in future partial releases.







