---
layout: post
title: "Class changes"
description: "Rounding out a lot of the Mass Effect 5e classes"
date: 2017-10-15
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/6/69/MEA_Soldier_Profile.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/420?cb=20180308081125
---

Pretty much all changes due, with thanks, to the lore mastery, creativity, and play testing of SleightxHope!

### Skills
* Removed Xenology. There was too much crossover between Medicine, History, and Xenology. Medicine is used for organic biology
checks (alien or no), history is culture, politics, legends, lore, etc. (alien or no)

### Races
* Now have alignments

### Classes

### Engineers
**Demolisher**
* Moved 2nd level Makeshift Grenades from 18 to 14.
* Replaced 14th level talent Targeting Mobility with new, more powerful talent Paint by Number.

#### Infiltrators
**Shadow**
* Deadly Strike renamed Up Close and Personal, moved to 2nd level.
* Melee Specialist replaced with Silent Cloak. Moved to 9th level. Aligns with Supreme Sneak from D&D PHB.
* Tactical Ambush moved to Shadow subclass at the 14th level.

**Operative**
* Complete rework, all new skillz!

#### Sentinels
**Battlemaster**
* Renamed to Overwatch, with a focus on managing the battlefield. Quality justification from SleightxHope, "Think of 
Miranda Lawson, who is effectively a Sentinel without tech armor. She's a leader, giving orders from the front ... a 
Sentinel subclass that uses superior Heads Up Display tech to give the Sentinel a tech aura that lets them give split-second 
tactical info to their allies (Help action)."
* Using a variety of Rogue features plus new tactically oriented features.
* Battlemaster provides advanced option selection with all Tech/Biotics at the 10th level.

#### Soldiers
**General**
* Soldiers advance their fighting style 9th level.

#### Vanguards
**Slayer**
* Replace Melee Specialist with Biotic Bull Rush.

### Feats
* A plethora of new feats!
* Melee Specialist removed form the Vanguard and Infiltrator Progression. Added as a feat.

### Spells
* Charge is now a spell attack, rather than a saving throw. Removed the shield regen mechanic and added it as a special 
feature of the new Vanguard class feature: Biotic Bull Rush.