---
layout: post
title: "v0.8.2"
description: "Changelog for Mass Effect 5e version 0.8.2"
date: 2018-07-08
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/d/d1/Codex_ME3_-_data_placeholder.png/revision/latest?cb=20140823044128
---

## General

* Added information about [cover](/phb/rules/combat#cover) (specifically targeting shooting through enemies)
* Added [Multiclassing](/phb/rules/multiclassing) rules

### Shields
* Shield regeneration can also be triggered by taking full cover
* After triggering your shield regeneration with the Hide or Dodge action, your shields continue to regenerate at the start
of your turn until you take damage or until the shields reach maximum capacity.

## Classes

Barrier regens on a short rest.

### Adept
The following features came from the wizard's progression D&D 5th edition. However, in Mass Effect 5e, a 2nd level spell
is equivalent to a 3rd/4th level spell in 5th edition. Thus, the following features were allowing very powerful, high-level
casts for free.
Biotic Mastery - limited to 1st level spells
Signature Biotics - limited to 1st & 2nd level spells

### Infiltrator
With the release of Xanathar's Guide to Everything, many of the following features have been updated or clarified. To match their
5th edition counterparts, the following features have been updated:
* Shadow
  * Sudden Strike
* Saboteur
  * Ear for Deceit, Eye for Detail, Insightful Fighting, Eye for Weakness

### Vanguards
Biotic Slash proved too costly as a subclass feature. It has been replaced with Biotic Fury (Barbarian's Divine Fury)
and Relentless (Paladin's Relentless Avenger)

## Spells

Biotic "Higher Level" spell effects have been doubled. This was a major oversight in the way spell damage was handled. We
follow the DMG's recommendations for spell damage, but ME5e spells cap at 5th level. A 1st level spell in this
system is equivalent to a 1st or 2nd level in 5th Edition. 2nd => 3rd or 4th. Therefore, in this system, when you cast a
1st level spell as 2nd level, the spell is increased by 2 levels (not 1). Therefore the benefits should be doubled.

Additionally the range of most spell attacks has been increased.

* __Alter Center Mass__: Increased range
  * _Debilitate_: reduces speed and buffs AoE attacks on the target
* __Catapult__: Improved spell text.
  * _Salvo_: Max to number of targets
  * _Counterstrike_: Potential counterspell
* __Lance__: Increased Range.
  * _Anti-shield_ Lighting damage is in addition to force damage (not a replacement)
* __Nova__: Changed to a cantrip. Since it requires Barrier Ticks to cast, it did not make sense to add an additional resource cost.
  * _Half Blast_ adjusted for comparable damage to _Improved Damage_.
* __Pull__
  * _Control_ was removed and included in the spell. _Grip_ added to provided a damage-dealing component to the spell.
* __Reave__: Overhauled. Now reflects how the spell works in the Mass Effect games.
* __Shockwave__: Clarified the width of the line
  * _Improved Distance_ was removed and replaced with _Controlled Shockwave_, allowing the player to redirect the shockwave
  as it travels

### New
* Biotic Slash, this replaces the Vanguards Biotic Slash feature as the feature proved too costly compared to other class features.

## Site Changes - Mobile Site Refactor

Our analytics showed that ~50% of the site traffic was from mobile devices. So the primary focus of this update was to improve
the quality of the mobile site. Including

* Mobile views for search and filters
* Full screen dialogs
* Responsive tables



