---
layout: post
title: "Happy N7 Day!!!"
description: "We have a lot of fun changes for Mass Effect 5e in version 0.9.0"
date: 2018-11-08
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/a/a1/N7_Logo.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/640?cb=20141110080319
---

<br>

# v0.9.0

<br>

## Vehicles

We have a new <nuxt-link to="/phb/rules/vehicles">section of rules</nuxt-link> related to vehicles and starships!!!

<br>

## Classes
Looking back at the history of the changelog, I realized that classes had become pretty wild. My initial approach to creating
classes had been: start with a 5th edition concept and plug in features from other classes that seem to work. Essentially,
this was horrible game design.

Each class and subclass needs a concept. In some cases, the translation from 5th
edition to Mass Effect was easy, and the concept was well defined. Adepts are a great example: they're glass-cannons. Each
adpet subclass also had a unified concept. Commandos dish out huge amounts of single target damage, focusing on
force-type biotic powers. Blackstars were control experts. Disruptors had the most AoE potential and had benefits to
necrotic powers. Unfortunately, all the other classes and subclasses fell short (with a few exceptions).

The engineers were severely underpowered. This was an inherent problem with the variable (X-cost) casting mechanic.
The infiltrator subclasses looked like I'd taken all of the rogue subclasses, shaken them up in a bag, and randomly drawn out some features
from each. One major oversight was that infiltrators lacked a true sniper rifle class, which was their primary weapon in
the Mass Effect games. Soldiers seemed uninspired. Vanguards had everything plus the kitchen sink thrown into their progression tables.
And sentinels felt too much like a multiclasses engineer/adept.

Therefore, classes have received a number of significant changes. For each class and subclass, I started with a concept and made sure the
base class reflected that concept. The base class concepts are rooted in how the class played in the Mass Effect games.
The subclasses are unique creations that focus on a particular aspect of the base class.

## Adepts
The adepts were generally fine and should feel like they did in v0.8.4. However the number of spell slots have been
reduced to match the spell progression of "full-casters" in 5th edition (clerics, druids, bards, sorcerers, wizards).
_Note: ME5e spells are squished by 2. I.e. a 1st-level spell in ME5e is in between a 1st/2nd-level spell in 5th edition_. 
Instead of set levels in which an Adept learns new spells, they can learn new spells at every level, giving them many
more opportunities to advance their arsenal.

## Engineers
__Concept__: Versatile casters.

__Subclass Concepts__: Drones, Healing, Strategy

The Engineer tech point system has been overhauled. Instead of tech spells having a variable cost, tech spells have spell
levels. Engineers use tech points to cast those spells, requiring one tech point for each level of the spell they want to cast:
1 tp = 1st level, 2tp = 2nd level, etc. This is a very minor change to 5th editions spell slot system, but it gives the
engineers a greater amount of versatility. Should I keep casting pot shots for 1 tech point? Or should I pump all of
my tech points into a spell for a huge payoff. They're still limited in how many tech points they can spend (a 50th level 
incinerate is just a bit OP...). But they have the option of casting 50 1st-level incinerates or 10 5th-level incinerates,
whereas traditional casters are limited by their spell slots. This makes engineers adaptable to any situation.

__Drone Jockey__
Drone Jockeys remain unchanged.

__Medic__
Medics remain unchanged.

__Mastermind__
Masterminds are always one step ahead of their enemies. Moved from the Sentinel class, masterminds are highly-intellectual and skilled individuals.
- _enfilade_ detonate primed enemies with your reaction, setting up the perfect combo
- _jack of all trades_ general ability in all skills
- _extra attack_
- _tactical advantage_ grants you bott advancement options for all your advanced spells, making any strategy possible
- _spell steal_ is your ultimate trump card against other casters

<br>

## Infiltrators
__Concept__: Stealthy combatants that fight from the shadows. The parity between Rogues and Infiltrators is self-evident, so the infiltrator base class is heavily based on rogues.

__Subclass Concepts__: Melee, Sabotage, Sniper Rifles

Though Infiltrators had a number of interesting combat options, Tactical Cloak proved too powerful to pass up in playtesting.
Each round of an infiltrator's turn consisted of Attack, Tactical Cloak, Move. With tactical cloak always on,
the infiltrator rarely suffered damage could always apply their sneak attack damage. This made for rather boring combat.

Another issues was multiclassing an Engineer with 2 levels of Infiltrator provided more opportunities for tactical cloak
than a full infiltrator.

To fix these issues, Tactical Cloak uses are limited to two users per short rest, increasing based on infiltrator level.

__Shadow__
Focus on melee attacks, closing distance, and sneaking up on targets.
- _up close and personal_ increases your sneak attack damage with melee weapons
- _silent cloak_ allows you to close distance without being noticed.
- _melee prowess_ improves your melee weapon attacks and damage
- _shadow strike_ improves your tactical cloak, allowing you to close distance, escape movement impairing effects, and strike targets
- _death strike_ grants an opportunity to deal devastating damage with a single opening attack

<br>

__Sniper__
Focus on using sniper rifles, giving infiltrators a subclass that references their Mass Effect counterpart
- _steady aim_ a powerful feature making this subclass deadly with a sniper rifle
- _careful eyes_ find targets even when they're hidden
- _overwatch_ monitor the battlefield and attack any creature that tries to move out of cover
- _killshot_ improved sneak attack damage with sniper rifles.

<br>

__Saboteur__
Saboteurs control the battlefield using distractions, tech powers, and sabotage. Very similar to arcane tricksters.
- _saboteur's touch_ sabotage enemy weapons
- _combat heuristics_ regain tech points every time you take down an enemy
- _tactical ambush_ increase the effectiveness of your spells when you use them from tactical cloak
- _misdirection_ make sure you're never hit in combat again
- _saboteur's reflexes_ rule the first round of combat by taking two turns

<br>

## Sentinels
__Concept__: Tanks and combat leaders

__Subclass concepts__: Leadership, Survivability, Support

Sentinels felt too much like a multi-classed adept and engineer. The new sentinel progression attempts to provide a
unique spellcasting experience for the class, utilizing the warlock progression from 5th edition.

Tech Armor was proving too powerful at high levels, granting as much as 300 additional hit points. The number of uses
per long rest has been reduced to 2.

Finally, the stat split for sentinels is over. Choosing between Wisdom and Intelligence was too much of a hindrance
and didn't make sense with the simplified spell system. Charisma is now a sentinel's spellcasting modifier.

__Bastion__
Bastions are combat leaders. Their features are based on the Warlord concept from Mike Mearls. Whereas masterminds
focus on increasing their own combat potential, bastions focus on increasing the potential of their party members.
- _master tactician_ increases the range of Help action and allows it as a bonus action
- _tactical focus_ choose an area of the battlefield and apply a unique tactic, the number of tactics and size of the area increases as you level
- _every ready_ make sure you're never surprised again and keep yourself at the top of the initiative order
- _call the shots_ sacrifice your action to bolster your allies and inhibit your enemies
- _tactical maneuvers_ direct your troops around the battle field
- _synchronized assault_ give your allies an additional action

<br>

__Juggernaut__
Juggernauts are living tanks, nearly impossible to kill.
- _assault armor_ keep the action on you
- _hardened tech armor_ increased ac and nullify critical hits
- _advanced tech armor_ keep your tech armor alive by gaining hit points when you cast spells
- _unyielding assault_ avoid becoming paralyzed, stunned, or frozen
- _adaptive tech armor_ gain resistance to the last type of damage you took

<br>

__Guardian__
Ultimate support specialists. They can buff the party but their expertise helps in non-combat situations. Overall, guardians
remain similar to their previous iterations. The primary change is that they are no longer limited to learn specific auras,
and their auras last 10 minutes.

## Soldiers
__Concept__: Weapon masters and combat experts.

__Subclass Concepts__: Combat Prowess, Weapon focus, EXPLOSIONS!!!

__Havoc Subclass__
Havoc soldiers do just that, cause havoc. They do so by using grenades, heavy weapons, and more powerful combat powers.
- _advanced weapon holsters_ allow havoc soldiers to bring more guns into a fight
- _makeshift grenades_ never run out of grenades again, use your omni-gel to create new ones
- _advanced combat powers_ do more with your combat powers
- _heavy weapon hack_ never run out of heavy weapon charges, use your omni-gel to create new ones
- _paint by number_ target and fire your heavy weapons in the same round.

<br>

__Weapon Master__
Weapon masters specialize in a single weapon. Mostly unchanged from the previous version, except their superiority die-type
increases with their level.

__Gladiator__
Based on the Samurai of 5th Edition's Unearthed Arcana. Gladiators revel in te challenge of combat and are extremely
difficult to kill. Their fighting spirit gives them incredible advantage in combat and can even prevent death.


## Vanguards
__Concept__: war-casters that use high-risk, high-reward tactics

__Subclass Concepts__: Melee, Shotguns & Charge, Biotic Powers

Vanguards spellcasting has been adjusted to "half-caster" level (paladins & rangers), requiring more emphasis on barrier
manipulation and close-quarter combat. However the nemesis subclass was reworked to provide a ranged option for vanguards
with unique biotic talents.

Vanguards can also learn combat powers instead of learning new cantrips.

__Battle Master__
Battle masters use their barrier ticks to create unique opportunities in combat. New features have been introduced that
increase their melee combat potential.
- _biotic maneuvers_ unique talents that can be applied using barrier ticks
- _biotic focus_ greatly increase your melee combat potential
- _improved barrier_ increase the potency of your barrier
- _extra attack_ gain an additional attack with this subclass,
- _opportunist_ use your reaction to strike creatures that have been hit with other attacks

<br>

__Shock Trooper__
Shock troopers are built around the charge cantrip, jumping from enemy to enemy, and closing distance for shotgun blasts.
- _biotic bull rush_ improves the charge cantrip and grants an additional weapoin attack
- _stunning strike_ further improves the charge cantrip by adding a potential stun
- _shotgun savvy_ allows you to apply brutal critical and zero-sum to your shotgun attacks
- _onslaught_ greatly improves the damage of charge
- _a touch of force_ adds a bonus to weapon attacks
- _blitz_ lets you use charge as a reaction

<br>

__Nemesis__
Nemesis vanguards focus on biotic powers and range. While they lack the biotic potential of adepts, they make up for it with survivability.
- _biotic recovery_ regenerates spell slots
- _metabiotics_ grants powerful augmentations to your biotic spells
- _biotic attacks_ take advantage of your extra attack by reducing the casting time of specific spells to an attack
- _biotic fury_ apply the benefits of zero-sum and brutal critical to your biotic spells
- _teleporting dodge_ stay out of harms way
- _bombardment_ deal even more damage with your biotic spells

<br>

## Races

### Quarians
- Use omni-gel to patch their suit.

### Geth
- Armor rules improved
- Soldier's hunter mode improved.
- removed keen senses

### Salarian
- clarified that salarians gain a short rest in 4 hours

### Turian
- added additional weapon proficiency

### Unshackled AI
- Armor rules improved
- removed keen senses

### New Race Concepts
While not official races, you can check out the Hanar and Elcor concepts in the new [Found Codices section](/phb/appendix/found-codices).

## Spells

- __ai hacking__ adjusted text to resemble dominate
  - _power down_ replaces damaging advancement, allows you to incapacitate the target
- __ballistic blades__
  - _exploding blades_ thunder damage reduced
- __barrier detonation__ added length, changed to Strength saving throw, targets with shields have advantage on the saving throw, clarified advancements
- __behive__ damage increased by 1d6
  - _remote deploy_ allows firing beehive as a reaction as well
- __concussive shot__ damage increases with level.
  - _stunning shot_ con save happens instead of str save
- __charge__: Is a ranged spell attack with a single target.
  - _Stunning blow_ removed (too powerful for a cantrip), replaced with _Area Charge_ for AoE potential.
- __cryo beam__ updated as a 2nd level spell, increased damage, allows continual casting
- __cryo blast__ updated as a 1st level spell, aoe slow spell that better represents its in-game counterpart, increased range
- __decoy__ adjusted to reflect 5th edition's mirror image
- __defense matrix__ adjusted to reflect 5th edition's shield of faith
- __disrupt biotics__ adjusted to reflect 5th edition's counterspell
  - _psychic strain_ deals more damage
- __electric slash__ updated as 2nd level spell
- __energy drain__ updated as 1st level spell, increased range
- __first aid__ updated as 1st level spell
- __flamethrower__ updated as 3rd level spell
- __fortification__
  - _venting fortification_ works on next melee attack, does not require omni-tool
- __guidance__ changed to bonus action, increased range
- __havoc strike__ increased usage to twice per long rest
- __hawk missile launcher__ casting time increased to bonus action
  - _three-headed beast_ replaces _improved damage_. Can distribute damage among three targets.
- __incinerate__ updated as 1st level spell
- __neural shock__ charisma save, updated as 1st level spell
- __nightshade blades__ adjusted. 3 uses per short rest (pending you recover your blades). con save to prevent poisoned condition, but no additional damage.
- __overload__ updated as 1st level spell
- __poison spray__ updated as 1st level spell
- __sabotage__ updated as 1st level spell
  - _multi weapon_ replaced with _primed_ which primes a target after firing the weapon
- __salvo__ updated as a 1st level spell
- __sentry turret__ updated as 4th level spell
- __shocking grasp__ updated as 1st level spell
- __siege pulse__ casting time increased to an action. number of times you can use the feature is a gamble, at least once per short rest.
  - _improved pulse_ add your CON modifier to the DC
  - _lingering pulse_ only effects targets that take the psychic damage.
- __snap freeze__ completely reworked, creating a (hopefully) fun and unique spell
- __stimulant pack__ works like 5th editions bless
- __submission net__ updated to a 2nd level spell
- __tactical scan__ updated to work more like Insightful Fighting
- __target painting__ updated as a 1st level spell
- __unity__ changed to an AoE healing spell, similar to mass heal

<br>

## Weapons
- __Charge__ mechanic was removed as a "standard" mechanic, now explained on the individual weapons.

<br>

## Omni-tool Programs
These using programs can utilize omni-gel or be programed into your omni-tool. They supplement many of the missing
features from wonderous items.

## Other

### Conditions
- __Frozen__ targets are considered primed (cold)
- __Unprotected__ condition has been removed

### Backgrounds
- __Experiment__ Background added


### Tools & Kits
- Armor and Weapon tools can repair guns and armor looted from the battlefield, allowing the items to be sold.
- Startship system kits have been finalized

<br>
