---
layout: post
title: "Road to Version 1.0"
description: "Additions and playtesting changes"
date: 2018-12-015
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/c/cf/Codex_ME_-_FTL_Drive.png/revision/latest?cb=20140820095603&format=original
---

<br>

# v0.9.1

For those unfamiliar with software development, any sub-1.0 version is generally considered "in beta", which basically means
an incomplete product. v0.9.0 brings us to the cusp of moving beyond beta and into a true production release. But making
the next step will take time and lots of playtesting. First, it is very unlikely there will be anymore major overhauls
with the system. At this point, everything is mostly in place and moving from v0.9.0 to v1.0.0 encompass a lot of minor
tweaks based on playtesting and additional items like vehicles, spells, and omin-tool programs to round out the system.  

<br>

## Classes

### Engineer
- Summoned drones now gain additional benefits from the players' prof bonus. Prior, the bonus was only to the damage and 
healing rolls. Now you can add your proficiency bonus to all skill checks, saving throws, attack rolls, and damage and healing.

### Sentinel
I've received a lot of great feedback about the changes to the Sentinel class. Mostly, everyone enjoys the overall refactor,
but much of the feedback focused on the use of CHA as the Sentinel's spellcasting modifier. Many felt this change was either
confusing or didn't fit the Mass Effect lore.

These types of nuances can be difficult, specifically which abilities apply to which classes. There is already a high premium
on Dexterity, due to the sheer number of ranged weapons, and a high premium on Intelligence, due to the fact this this is
Sci-fi and a lot of skills require Intelligence (Engineering, Electronics, Science). Admittedly, this change was an attempt 
to bring some balance to the spellcasting skills; an attempt to equalize the use of CHA, WIS, and INT in spellcasting modifiers.
But the flavor text to support this change wasn't enough.

Thus, I've changed the Sentinel's spellcasting mod to be player/GM choice. Although this technique might be unheard of,
I feel it allows each group of players to decide which spellcasting ability makes the most sense to the group:

INT: The sentinel uses a high IQ to multi-task in combat and find strategic locations to place spells
CHA: The sentinel uses willpower to overcome the mental strain and innate talents or brute force when casting spells
WIS: The sentinel uses intense focus and practiced patience or combat insight when using spells

As a GM, work with your sentinel operatives to decide what you'd like to use for your campaign, or, based on the operative's
backstory and roleplay, let them choose!

### Vanguard
__Shocktrooper__
- _Biotic bull rush_. Bonus distance increased to 20m to compensate for charge's increased distance.

## Spells
- __Charge__ I can honestly say that the Charge spell has changed more times than any other spell (and we're probably not finished). 
  We've playtested it as spell attack, and the damage was lacking. Moreover, a miss resulted in no movement (which is supposed 
  to be a benefit of the power). The current iteration makes Charge a DEX save power, always providing movement and dealing
  some minor damage if the creature fails its saving throw. There is no half damage on a successful save (keeping in line
  with 5th edition cantrips). Additionally, the range and damage have been increased to 14m and 1d10, respectively.
  - _Barrier Regen_ To compensate for changes to Charge, the barrier regen has been reduced to 2 ticks instead of half
      of your ticks. When casting Charge, you will always gain barrier ticks, which is why the number was reduced.
      Although this breaks tradition with the Mass Effect advancements, this is one of those times where the video game
      mechanic doesn't mesh well with the D&D combat system.
  - _Area Charge_. Increase the radius to 4m.
- __Hawk Missile Launcher__
  - _Three-headed beast_. Clarified that the damage is split between the three missiles.

## Bestiary

- Oculus
- STG Agent
- Sniper
- Blue Suns faction
  - Centurion
  - Heavy
  - Legate
  - Legionnaire
  - Pyro
  - Trooper
- Blood Pack
  - Boom-Squad
  - Pyro
  - Trooper
  - Warlord
  - Warrior


### Other

- Optional rules for Indoctrination can be found in the Found Codices section of the Appendix
