---
layout: post
title: "Version 0.9.2"
description: "Updated races, new feats, and bug fixes"
date: 2019-02-03
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/4/4d/Council_Hologram-Ambassador_Meeting_2.png/revision/latest?cb=20091227112411
---

# v0.9.2

I had to run the release of this version due to an error in v0.9.1 (the race pages were not being generated properly.
I hoped to add some new spells from Ben, a lot of new monsters from Dakota P., a few new mods, and some more example vehicles.
I still plan on adding those in the next couple of weeks.

## Rules

### AC & Armor
I've clarified the Armor & AC table. Before Arms & Legs were in the same row, which indicated that the AC bonus was for wearing arm _AND_ leg armor.
However, the intent is that Arm and Leg armor provide their own AC bonus. 

Additionally, I clarified that wearing pieces from different armor sets still provides the AC from the armor, but you do not get any set bonuses.
In a future patch, I plan to expand this further and make the set bonuses based on the number of pieces you are wearing. 

## Classes
Multiclassing proficiency gains have been improved for the following classes:
- Engineer, Assualt Rifles and Medium Armor
- Infiltrator, Sniper Rifles and Melee Weapons
- Sentinel, Medium and Heavy Armor, and 1 weapon type from Assault Rifles, Melee, Shotguns, or SMGs
- Soldier, Medium and Heavy Armor, and 2 weapon types
- Vanguard, Medium Armor and Shotguns

## Races

Descriptions have been added to each race, largely sourced from [Races from the Relay](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-L7HA1pIhxcx3bVb8vqf) by [/u/thestray](https://www.reddit.com/user/thestray).

Race changes below have been made for 2 reasons: Balance, based on [Detect Balance: a 5e Homebrew Race Guide](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1vq1kz6PRAbw5LHy6amH-bNb4OuB8DBXL1RsZROt03Sc/edit#gid=0) by Eleazzaar,
and because the pervasiveness of starting feats for each race diluted the uniqueness of each race.

### Asari
- Removed _Skill Versatility_ replaced with _Natural Diplomat_
- combined _Biotic Initiate_ and _Innate Biotics_ into a single trait
- Added _Ardat-Yakshi_ as a variant

### Batarian
- Removed feat options
- Added Four Eyes 
  
### Drell
- Removed feat options
- Removed _Hallucinogen_ as it is primarily flavor with very little game impact
- Removed _Darkvision_ as there is no indication that Drell can see in the dark
- Replaced _Keen Senses_ with _Natural Hunter_ providing 2 skill proficiencies from a list
- Added _Raw Agility_ allowing speed boosts 
  
### Elcor 
- Removed _Unstealthy_, given some technology they could be stealthy and quiet
- Removed _Stability_, for balancing reasons. High AC already assists in their defensive capabilities
- Changed _Thick Hide_, bonus is not restricted to not wearing armor. Use Con instead of Dex
- Added _Shoulder Mounts_, explains how elcor use ranged weapons.
  
### Geth
- Changed _Repair Matrix_, geth cannot be healed by medi-gel or spells that target organic creature. Instead they can spend
  hit die as an action. 
  
### Hanar
- Completely reworked.
  
### Humans
- Made humans in line with D&D 5th Edition. The variant human is available.
  
### Krogan
- Adjusted ability score increases to +2 CON and +1 STR
- Removed _Natural Armor_, replaced with _Toughness_. Wanted Krogans to be tough to kill, not tough to hit.
- Replaced _Rage_ with _Blood Rage_, as it better represents their relentlessness.
- Removed _Relentless_ as it is better reflected by _Blood Rage_
- Added _Extremophile_ from Races from the Relay, as it better represents their ability to survive
  
### Prothean
- _All eyes on you_ and _Avatar_ moved to the flavor/about section as they had little game impact.
  
### Quarian
- Ability scores reduce to two +1's (DEX and INT). Additional scores are gained from the cybernetic enhancements
- _Cybernetic Enhancement_ adds greater variety (thanks to Races from the Relay for the ideas).
- _Hermetic suit_ now requires critical damage to be of puncture or slashing type to breach the suit.
  
### Salarian
- Removed starting feat. Replaced with _Twice as Bright_ which provides skill and tool proficiencies.

### Turian
- Changed ability score increase to +1 of all the body traits
- Removed _Turian Toughness_
- Added _Brothers-in-Arms_ (basically pack tactics)
- Added Athletics proficiency to martial training.
  
### Unshackled AI
- Removed, now are a variant race of [geth](/phb/races/geth).

### Volus
- Added _Hermetic Suit_ because they have one.
  
### Vorcha
- Removed _Hungry Jaws_ and _Bloodlust_ Neither had much to do with Vorcha.
- Added _Adaptation_ providing some unique benefits based on the vorcha's environment

## Spells
- __Hawk Missile Launcher__. Cooldown increased to once per short rest (instead of twice).

## Bestiary

- Blood Pack correctly labeled with "Blood Pack" faction

## Backgrounds
Some of the backgrounds were missing starting credits.
- Criminal now has starting credits (1,500)
- Scholar now has starting credits (2,000)

## Omni-tool Programs
- __Cognition booster__ _uncommon_ -> _rare_
- __Threat Assessment__ _uncommon_ -> _rare_
- __Trace Signal Jammer__ clarified advantage on saving throw against heavy weapons that require targeting

## Feats
New feats from RJ:
- Card Shark
- Come Get Me
- Grace Under Fire
- Nerves of Steel

<br>

New Racial Feats from [Races from the Relay](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-L7HA1pIhxcx3bVb8vqf) by [/u/thestray](https://www.reddit.com/user/thestray):
- Additional Augmentation
- Cranial Bruiser
- Warlord's Blood Rage


## Misc
- All class features now indicate at which level you receive them.
- Class features correctly appear on the class features tab.
- Navigation between classes & races has been added to the individual class/race pages
- Finally squashed the remaining bugs in the grunt generator.
- Alert Boxes now have WCAG 2.0 contrast compliance 
- Race page direct links work again
