---
layout: post
title: "Version 1.0.0"
description: "... 2 years later"
date: 2019-03-24
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/d/de/MEvisionSEQ3728.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/800?cb=20081024150301
---

# v1.0.0

## A message from Luke A.

<div class="ma-3"><em>

It’s been a little over two years since the very first release of this project, and I am so happy with its progress. 
When I first started, my only goal was to have something for my friends and I to use. I honestly had no idea that the 
system would reach so many people. A quick glance at the past year shows that we've had over 19,000 people visit 
the site from over 100 countries! The daily active users are up to 170 with about 2,000 monthly active users, and the 
trendline continues to increase. I've received countless emails and feedback from people all over the world. I want to 
say thank you to everyone who is using the system and especially to everyone who has contributed your thoughts and ideas. 
I am so humbled by your appreciation and I couldn't have done it without you.

With this large content release (which primarily contains a lot of Andromeda content), I felt it was finally time to 
cut the v1.0 release of this system. It's still not perfect and I want to see it evolve. But I feel 
that it has reached a worthwhile milestone.

I have no intent on abandoning this project anytime soon. But, the foundation is complete. Is it perfect? Of course not, 
but the entire set of rules has reached a stable, maintainable point. Essentially, this means there won't be any major, 
sweeping rule changes. I won't be overhauling classes, races, spells, how combat works, or any other system altering 
portions. If you think there are places where major overhauls are required, then we certainly encourage you to run 
campaigns with your own set of rules. Perhaps one day, in the far future, enough problems will surface and we will 
release a grand v2.0, but this won't happen for many years to come.

Having said all of that, _of course_, there will continue to be minor tweaks. When overpowered combinations 
between spells and class features or weapons and mods are uncovered, I will continue to remedy the issues with small 
adjustments. Even while writing this, I received an email about potential abuse of Burst Fire at lower levels.
But my goal is that these tweaks will gradually decrease.

Additionally, the time has come for me to take a step back from my role as a content creator. This means I'll be 
leaning on the community more than ever to contribute content. In preparation for this change, I've created a number of 
idea submission forms so players can send us their content. Specifically, there are a number of monsters left to create 
and I'd love for more re-skinned 5e Wondrous Items as Omni-Tool programs. We've also created a 
subreddit, [/r/masseffect5e](https://www.reddit.com/r/masseffect5e/) to encourage more feedback and community communication.

The primary reason that I want to step away from content creation is that I wish to focus my time on “at the table” 
improvements. These include an encounter manager, a dice roller, online character creation, and better character sheets, 
including official Roll20, fillable PDF, and Google Sheets character sheets. I want a better PDF of the game 
document and I have a major idea for an explorable galaxy with planetoid descriptions. I also want to start 
creating adventures and tutorials so new players can jump right into the system. This list of improvements will take 
years and some may never happen, but at this time, it's my goal. However, I won't be able to accomplish these 
goals if I'm focusing on backfilling classes, monsters, and other content.

So, in short, I'm asking for your help. If you want to see this system improve, you have all of the power. Please use 
our [many avenues of feedback](/contributing) to let us know how we can improve and submit your ideas! 

Everyone reading this...seriously, thank you. I can't wait to see what we create together.

Sincerely,

Luke A.

</em></div>

## Rules

- Expanded the armor bonuses and limitations table to be more gradient and realistic. Before if you were wearing all
light armor and added heavy arms, the required STR jumped to 16.
- High Jump distance is divided by three instead of two (most things can't high jump 4 meters, ~12ft)
- Clarified that after your shield regeneration begins, it continues at the start of your turn until your shields are max
or you take damage.
- Weapon mods cannot be uninstalled from weapons. This was a hold-over from before there were tools and kits. Now, using weaponsmith's
workbench is the only way to _potentially_ salvage installed mods. The primary issue is that weapon mods are fairly cheap for their
gameplay value and players could easily buy the best mods and swap them between better weapons with ease. Without the ability to
remove a mod, if players want to customize a weapon, they need to buy or build a new weapon. If you'd prefer to use
a more flexible modding system, we recommend that you increase the cost of weapon mods 10 fold. 

## Classes
- __Barrier__: There was an infinite combination between biotic punch and barrier. With RAW, a player could cast biotic punch
repeatedly to gain an infinite amount of barrier ticks. Now, your total possible barrier ticks is limited to the barrier ticks
column in the class progression table. This was always the intent but is has been explicitly stated.
- __Assault Fighting Style__: Increases the DC by 2 instead of by proficiency bonus. No increase in size. Burst Fire proved too
powerful at lower levels and other fighting styles do not scale with level (except for Brawler, which is expected because melee
is not as powerful as ranged).

### Engineer
- __Supply Pylon__: Clarified some of the text in supply pylon. First, the resources are selected when you summon it and you only have one
of each resource. Second, specified which grenades and their mark. Additionally, there is a cost of 5 omni-gel to recharge this ability. It was pointed out that players
could easily spent, say, a month calling the supply pylon a few times a day and sell the items within for infinite cash.

### Sentinel
- Reduced Tech Armor hit points to (Sentinel Lvl + Spellcasting Mod) * _2_ (instead of 3). Maxed out, Tech armor was allowing 150 additional hit points per long rest,
  which was way too many.
- __Guardian__
  - _Omni-shield_:
    - Removed _If wielding a single-handed ranged or melee weapon, gain +2 AC and a +2 bonus to Dexterity saving throws._ Replaced with +1 AC.
    - Added Fire and Cryo shield augmentation at higher levels.
  

### Soldier
- __Havoc__: Makeshift grenades increase in power at higher levels.

### Vanguard
- __Shock Trooper__
  - _A Touch of Force_: The bonus only applies to damage rolls. Fictionally, it didn't make sense for a biotic boost to affect
    the ability to attack with a weapon. Also, added a 1 minute length to the effect.

## Races

### Geth
- __Unshackled AI__, updated description to better distinguish that unshackled AI are a variant race rather than a subrace.

### Hanar
- Hover is not it's own movement speed, but a type of flying and hanar cannot fly. Instead, they have been given a
a new trait _contra-gravitic levitation_ which provides a walking speed and some benefits against difficult terrain 
but has a chance to malfunction.

### Prothean
- Added the Awakened Collector variant race

### Volus
- Added a deadlier version of the hermetic suit breach since volus are much more at risk to breaches.

### Vorcha
- Added an _Underground_ environment option for the _Adaptation_ trait

## Spells
Two new spells. As said above, I'd love to get some spell submissions from the community.
- Biotic Jump
- Invasion

## Bestiary
- Any creature that has barrier ticks, now has text that indicates it takes 1d8 reduced damage when hit.
- I have a backlog of monsters that have been designed by Dakota P. that I need to add. These will come sooner, rather than
later.

## Armor Mods
New armor mods inspired by Mass Effect: Andromeda
- Aerial Performance Optimizer
- Battlefield Assist Module
- EC Counter
- Equilibrium Regulator
- Medi-gel Regulator

## Armor Sets
Armor sets have been largely overhauled to introduce a new mechanic: Armor Set Bonuses. The purpose of this change was
two-fold: first, to alleviate confusion about what bonuses you receive from wearing a single piece of armor from a set,
and, second, to make armor pieces more accessible at all stages of the game. It also allows for more mix-and-match potential
without requiring the player to create custom armor.

### Full Armor that became individual pieces with set bonuses
- Blood Dragon Armor
- Cerberus Ajax Armor
- Cerberus Assault Armor
- Cerberus Nightmare Armor
- Cerberus Shade Armor
- Cerberus Spirit Armor
- Collector Armor
- Colossus Armor
- Inferno Armor
- N7 Defender Armor
- N7 Armor
- Partisan Armor
- Reckoner-Knight Armor
- Terminus Assault Armor

### Andromeda Items

Some items are marked with an "Andromeda" flag. But this only means that the armor's name and flavor text 
does not apply to Milky Way settings. We still encourage GMs to allow players to purchase Andromeda armor, but,
above the table, decide on a different name and origin. Note that some armor from the Andromeda game are not flagged.
This is because the armor could reasonably be available in the Milky Way. For Example, HyperGuardian armor was purchased
by the Andromeda Initiative and taken with them to the Andromeda Galaxy. But it was manufactured in the Milky Way by
Kassa Fabrication.

- Andromeda Elite Helmet
- Angaran Armor set
- Deep Space Explorer Armor set
- Heleus Armor set
- HyperGuardian Armor set
- Initiative Armor set
- Kett Armor set
- Maverick Armor set
- Pathfinder Armor set
- Remnant Armor
- Scavenger Armor

### New / Updated Body Armor

Additionally, some new body armor has been introduced as standard upgrades to stock armor. Names of these new armor
come from the list of Mass Effect 1 armor (similarities stop there).

- Assassin Armor
- Crisis Armor
- Duelist Armor
- Freedom Armor
- Gladiator Armor
- Hoplite Armor
- Survivor Armor
- Liberator Armor
- Predator Armor
- Onyx Armor
- Skirmish Armor
- Titan Armor
- Ursa Armor

If you need the old armor pieces, you can find them in the [v0.9.2 Player's Manual](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1hR63JVeS21uYYAnrV8PCCbsHV_jvKm8Y).


## Weapon mods
New weapon mods inspired by Mass Effect: Andromeda
- Burst Fire System
- Beam Emitter
- Bio-Converter
- Electrical Conduits
- Grenade Launcher
- Plasma Charge System
- Rebalanced Field Coils
- Seeking Plasma System
- Single Fire System
- Sticky Grenade Launcher
- Ultralight Materials II
- Vintage Heat Sink

## Weapons
All new weapons based on the Andromeda game. Like the armor sets, some weapons found only in the Andromeda galaxy have
an "Andromeda" flag. This means the weapon wouldn't be found in the Milky Way, but you can simply rename the weapon or 
agree that the weapon was made in the Milky Way and use it.

- Charger
- Cyclone
- Dhan
- Electric Firaan
- Equalizer
- Hesh
- Inferno
- Isharay
- Kett Carfalon
- Kett Vakarsh
- L-89 Halberd
- Lanat
- Naladen
- P.A.W.
- Pathfinder Deep Impact
- Pathfinder Observer
- Pathfinder Pioneer
- Pathfinder Ranger
- Remnant Cryo-Gauntlet
- Rozerad
- Ruzad
- Sandstorm
- Scattershot
- Shadow
- Shorty
- Sidewinder
- Silhesh
- Soned
- Sovoa
- Sweeper
- Thokin
- Ushior
- Vanquisher
- X5 Ghost
- Zalkin

## Grenades
Grenades can have Marks much like Spells have levels, and they increase in power with each mark.

## Omni-Tools
Introduced a new concept of "Unstable" programs. These can be used more than once, but have a limited number or uses due to the
instability of the code. thermic_overvent.exe have been changed to an unstable program as an example.

## Misc
- Added a Random Height & Weight table from Rex the Pig
- Fixed a bug with low-CR grunts from the generator having 0 Hp.
