---
layout: post
title: "Version 1.1.0"
description: "Fillable Character Sheet, Google Sheets Character Sheet, New Monsters, Item Rarities"
date: 2019-04-13
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/2/20/Hainly_Abrams_charshot.png/revision/latest?cb=20181104194445
---

# v1.1.0


## Character Sheets

- An updated fillable character sheet by [/u/wretchedcrows](https://www.reddit.com/user/wretchedcrows) that is based on the updated character sheet.
- Added an official Google Sheets character sheet, it attempts to strike a balance between Ben's and GameMasterPo's
- Nick S. Fixed some formulas in Ben M's Google Sheets Character Sheet

## Found Codices Removed
The "Found Codices" section was meant to be a place where we could present community and/or new ideas. Similar to the 
"Unearthed Arcana" of D&D 5e. But now that we have a subreddit, it makes sense to keep community ideas there. 

## Equipment

All equipment now has rarity. These were added to assist GMs in deciding which items they should distribute as loot. Each
equipment page has a new rarity filter. In addition, the item names correspond with their rarity color.

"Spectre" has replaced "Very Rare" and/or "Legendary" as the top tier rarity. 

### Weapons
Having recently replayed ME1-3, I was reminded that the weapons have an animation when you holster and draw them, transforming from
a compact device into a full weapon and vice versa. Therefore, operatives would be able to carry more than two weapons.

Because of this, weapon slots have been increased to 4, with two-handed weapons requiring 2 slots.

### Mods
To accommodate the weapon slot change
- Back holster, provides 2 additional weapon slots
- Hip holster, provides 1 additional weapon slot

## Classes

### Soldier

__Havoc__ subclass's _advanced weapon holsters_ now provide 2 additional weapon slots that can both hold two-handed weapons. 

### Vanguard

__Biotic Maneuvers__ did not say how many maneuvers the player learned initially (it should be 3).

## Backgrounds
- Veteran incorrectly had old (now removed) starship systems as proficiency choices.

## Bestiary

Finally got around to adding all of Dakota P.'s bestiary submissions (Thanks!)

- Eclipse Commando
- Eclipse Engineer
- Eclipse Heavy
- Eclipse Operative
- Eclipse Trooper
- Eclipse Vanguard
- Kett Chosen
- N7 Slayer
- N7 Shadow
- N7 Paladin
- N7 Demolisher
- Security Guard
- Thorian
- Thorian Controller
- Thorian Creeper
- Thorian Spawn
- Thorian Thrall

## Spells
A number of new spells from Ben M. and a new contributor, Chris Alley

- Blade Armor
- Damping
- Flak Cannon
- Gravity Field
- Heavy Charge
- Nanite Cloud
- Pheromone Spray
- Tear
- Trophy System
- Warp Cloud

- Charge: added a note that charge ignores half cover to represent its "semi-teleport" functionality in the ME games

## Vehicles

- Collector Ship, contributed by Connor Maxwell

## Misc

- Fixed the metric random height/weight tables
