---
layout: post
title: "Version 1.1.0"
description: "New Monsters, Fillable Character Sheet, Google Sheets Character Sheet, & Item Rarities"
date: 2019-05-05
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/7/79/Bekenstein_-_brute_force_guards.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/640?cb=20121012180405
---

# v1.1.0


## Character Sheets

- An updated fillable character sheet by [/u/wretchedcrows](https://www.reddit.com/user/wretchedcrows) that is based on the updated character sheet.
- Added an official Google Sheets character sheet, it attempts to strike a balance between Ben's and GameMasterPo's
- Nick S. Fixed some formulas in Ben M's Google Sheets Character Sheet

## Found Codices Removed
The "Found Codices" section was meant to be a place where we could present community and/or new ideas. Similar to the 
"Unearthed Arcana" of D&D 5e. But now that we have a subreddit, it makes sense to keep community ideas there. 

## Equipment

All equipment now has rarity. These were added to assist GMs in deciding which items they should distribute as loot. Each
equipment page has a new rarity filter. In addition, the item names correspond with their rarity color.

"Spectre" has replaced "Very Rare" and/or "Legendary" as the top tier rarity. 

### Weapons
Having recently replayed ME1-3, I was reminded that the weapons have an animation when you holster and draw them, transforming from
a compact device into a full weapon and vice versa. Therefore, operatives would be able to carry more than two weapons.

Because of this, weapon slots have been increased to 4, with two-handed weapons requiring 2 slots.

### Heavy Weapons

Realized during some playtesting that the heavy weapons were woefully out of whack when comparing the cost/damage ratio. For
example, the ML-77 does an average of 39 damage per shot, with 6 charges. Total damage before you need to refill is 234.
This is an uncommon weapon that doesn't even require targeting to fire. Comparatively, the M-597 Landon deals 4d8 damage
with 10 charges. Total damage before you need to refill is 180, but it's a spectre level weapon.

Each weapon is slightly different, and the blast radius, DC, and time to fire all add some unique variation and should be considered
when assigning total damage. I'm currently running a full analysis and will have more sweeping changes to heavy weapons
with 1.2.0. Right now, I've adjusted the ML-77 launchers to 3d12 damage instead of 6d12.  

### Mods
To accommodate the weapon slot change
- Back holster, provides 2 additional weapon slots
- Hip holster, provides 1 additional weapon slot

## Classes

### Soldier

__Havoc__ subclass's _advanced weapon holsters_ now provide 2 additional weapon slots that can both hold two-handed weapons. 

### Vanguard

__Biotic Maneuvers__ did not say how many maneuvers the player learned initially (it should be 3).

## Backgrounds
- Veteran incorrectly had old (now removed) starship systems as proficiency choices.

## Bestiary

Finally got around to adding all of Dakota P.'s bestiary submissions (Thanks!)

- Eclipse Commando
- Eclipse Engineer
- Eclipse Heavy
- Eclipse Operative
- Eclipse Trooper
- Eclipse Vanguard
- Kett Chosen
- N7 Slayer
- N7 Shadow
- N7 Paladin
- N7 Demolisher
- Security Guard
- Thorian
- Thorian Controller
- Thorian Creeper
- Thorian Spawn
- Thorian Thrall

## Spells
A number of new spells from Ben M. and a new contributor, Chris Alley

- Blade Armor
- Damping
- Flak Cannon
- Gravity Field
- Heavy Charge
- Nanite Cloud
- Pheromone Spray
- Tear
- Trophy System
- Warp Cloud
- Charge: added a note that charge ignores half cover to represent its "semi-teleport" functionality in the ME games

## Vehicles

- Collector Ship, contributed by Connor Maxwell

## Misc

- Fixed the metric random height/weight tables
