---
layout: post
title: "Version 1.2.0"
description: ""
date: 2019-06-29
image: https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/2/2b/MEA_Melee_Weapons.png/revision/latest?cb=20180324021732&format=original
---

# v1.2.0

- Removed the v0.8.4 classes. With new work on tweaking classes for better balance, and future subclasses in the works, it
was too difficult to try and support these options. You can find them in [previous versions of the pdf](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1eDfgpG3JplKUjrIdySJKmyC4qxTi2MUT).

## Highlights

## Rules
- Removed Unshackled AI from random height/weight table. Replaced Geth random values with unshackled AI.
- Clarified Set Bonuses in the Armor section
- Fixed targeting description in the rules. Incorrectly said targeting was a free action.
- Fixed weapon mods description in rules section. Incorrectly said melee weapons could not have mods.
- Changed medi-gel resupply cost to "varies" as the cost varies based on the medi-gel type.
- Added _Variant: Venting_ to the Thermal Clips section of the rules.
- Fixed the error in the Charisma section of Using Ability Scores which referenced "wisdom" 

## Classes

- __Barrier__. Number of uses previously said it was based on your highest Adept, Sentinel, or Vanguard level. Changed 
to your combined levels of those classes.

### Engineer
- __Engineer's Efficiency__: Reduces the scaling increase of the spell to a 2TP version at 11th level. EE was intended 
to be a filler spell for engineers, but scaling to a free 2nd-, 3rd-, 4th-level spell essentially replaced the need for 
weapons and was almost always the best action for the engineer to take.
- __Medic, Medi-gel Enhancements__: Clarify feature text, "Within 1 minute of using this medi-gel, the next time you 
take damage that reduces you to 0 hit points but doesn't kill you outright, you are reduced to 1 hit point instead."

### Sentinel
- __Heavy Barrier__: reduce from 3d8 to 2d8

### Soldier
- __Tactical Reload__: Changed to "When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can use one of your attacks to 
reload a weapon your are wielding."
- __Indomitable__: Correctly provide 1, 2, and 3 uses at appropriate levels.

### Vanguard
- __Heavy Barrier__: reduce from 3d8 to 2d8

## Races

## Feats
- __Melee Specialist__ correctly highlighted as a new feat.
- __Grenadier__. Added a range of the grenade attack (10m/30m)
- __Hair Trigger__. Remove free action attack from Hair Trigger.

## Backgrounds

## Weapons

## Weapon Mods

## Armor Mods

## Armor Sets
- __Maverick Boots__ incorrectly had a 19 or higher as a critical hit, the rest of the set had an 18.

## Omni-tool Programs

## Grenades

## Tools & Kits

## Vehicles

## Spells
- __Ballistic Blades__. Reduce damage from 2d12 to 2d10.
- __Havoc Strike__. Increase the "cooldown" to twice per long rest instead of short rest.
- __Hawk Missile Launcher__. Reduce damage from 3d6 to 3d4.
- __Concussive Shot__. Completely reworked.
  - Bonus Action, Twice per short rest
  - Load a new thermal clip into your weapon then make a ranged attack on a target using the weapon's range. 
    On a hit, the target takes damage equal to your weapons base damage and Concussive Shot detonates any primed conditions.
    Hit or miss, each creature or object within 4m must make a Con save versus your DC (DEX + Prof bonus + proficiency bonus). 
    The DC is equal to 8 + DEX + proficiency bonus.  The thermal clip is then exhausted and you must reload your weapon.
    Increase the thunder damage dealt to the target, creatures, and objects at 5th level (4d4), 11th level (6d4), and 
    17th level (8d4).
      - Advancement 1: Stunner - If the ranged attack hits and the target fails their Con save they are 
      stunned until the end of their next turn.
      - Advancement 2: Forceful - On a hit, a medium or smaller target is pushed 6m away from you. Each other medium or 
      smaller creature within the radius is pushed 2m away from the center. If a creature can't occupy the next space it 
      would be pushed into, it is instead knock prone in the space it currently occupies.
- __Siege Pulse__. Reduce casting time to a Bonus Action.
- __Tactical Scan__. _Telegraphed Attacks_ advancement only benefits the caster.

## Bestiary
- Fixed issue of some creatures with infrared vision showing a distance of "null" meters.
- __Assault Drone__:
  - Increase health from 3d6 to 5d6
- __Combat Drone__: 
  - Increase health from 3d6 to 6d6
  - Removed erroneous _petrified_ immunity.
- __Defense Drone__:
  - Increase health from 4d6 to 6d6
- __Disruption Drone__: 
  - Increase health from 2d6 to 4d6
  - Clarified Self destruct mechanic.
  - Increased explosion damage to 2d12.
- __Recon Drone__:
  - Increase health from 2d6 to 4d6
- __Rocket Drone__:
  - Increase health from 2d6 to 5d6
  - Increase damage to 2d8
  - Increase CR to 1/2
- __Repair Drone__:
  - Increase health from 2d6 to 5d6

## Site Features

<br>
